Ashland University official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://libguides.ashland.edu/GEN-AI/welcome

Overview • What's Here

This guide presents a collection of library resources and information, including books and eBooks, database articles and journals, open access resources, and internet resources introducing the topic of Generative AI. Item selection spans a variety of articles and media,from introductory videos and general definitions, to database articles and research studies.

The welcome statement for this library guide was generated using ChatGPT with a prompt asking it to write an introduction "welcoming users to a library guide dedicated to generative AI. Page is specific to faculty members and supports the teaching and learning mission of the library." Click here to view the full transcript.

Navigation • Using this Guide

Explore this site using the tabs at the top of the page; work from left to right, or choose a topic that is of interest to you. When viewing databases, eBook collections, eBooks, journals, and articles from off-campus, authentication is required.  Login using your AU credentials (username & password) for access.

Library Guide topics include: 

    New to AI? and Looking @ ChatGPT
    Titles from Archer Library's circulating and reserve collections;
    Selected eBooks and links to library eBook collections;
    Articles and journals from library databases;
    Curated resources and information from The Chronicle of Higher Education & EDUCAUSE;
    The 2024 EDUCAUSE AI Landscape Study; and
    Internet resources and RSS Feeds from Tech & Learning and EDUCAUSE.


Library Instruction 

Professors have requested an introduction to ChatGPT as a research resource and/or research starter during library instruction sessions. The library instruction tab presents a general introduction to this concept, including a selection of ACRL Framework for Information Literacy standards, learner knowledge practices and dispositions,  that may be addressed during classes.  Two library guide examples provided in the drop down menu.
