Bellarmine College official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://www.bellarmine.edu/magazine/article/magazine-2023/2023/10/06/ai-and-higher-education-the-machines-are-learning-what-does-that-mean-for-us/
                   
Featured                
The concept of technologies that can learn is not new. The coining of the term “artificial intelligence,” or “AI,” is commonly attributed to John McCarthy of Dartmouth College back in the 1950s. So we’ve had a pretty
        big heads-up that this was coming. Since McCarthy gave AI its name, the six decades of development of synthetic “neural networks” in computers, the evolution of hardware and circuitry, and the exponential rise of data and the speed
        of its processing have all converged to the present point at which we’re all talking about AI, because it’s here, it’s affecting our lives in real ways, and it’s not going away.  
With just a few hours of time, everyday resources, and minimal technical capability—the generative AI platforms that are now widely available—here’s a smattering of things I can do:  
In the modern context, where do we delineate the parameters of authorship from technological assistance? The metaphor may not be apples-to-apples, but one could certainly argue that generative AI is simply a platform for a new kind of content generation.
        Maybe this is how writing will be done in the near future. Is it better? That depends on the definition of “better.” Perhaps the data-processing power of AI will eventually be able to generate content that is “better” (by
        some definitions) or of a higher quality than what a human would have created. What about the ethical and moral questions? When would it be OK to use AI in this way? Is it more OK when it’s more commonly accepted in a given industry? When
        does it matter?  
    
The advancements enabled by AI across all industries should be exciting to all of us. I’ve read about AI-boosted cancer detection that successfully detects tumors before they even form. Read that sentence again. Game-changer. Complex and millennia-old
        problems that humans have been unable to crack may be solved in the next few decades, thanks in part to the good people of Earth who will use AI for the better.  

