Beth-El College of Nursing and Health Sciences official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://libguides.uccs.edu/c.php?g=1357807&p=10025999
You should always check with your instructor before using AI for coursework. 
 
If you choose to use generative AI tools for course assignments, you want to make sure you are still providing proper citations for those materials. Most major style guides are still developing norms and conventions for AI generated materials so this material is likely to change. However, they have established some preliminary guidelines on citing AI generated content. 
 
In general, here are some guidelines to remember about citing AI-generated resources no matter what citation style you use: 
When citing APA style using generative AI, credit the author of the algorithm. For example, if you are using ChatGPT then OpenAI would actually be the author. Like normal sources, APA is currently recommending in-text references and in your reference list. (Recommendations from APA as of Spring 2023)
Format:
Author. (Date). Name of tool (Version of tool) [Large language model]. URL
Example:
OpenAI. (2023). ChatGPT (Mar 14 version) [Large language model]. https://chat.openai.com/chat
In-Text Citation Example:
(OpenAI, 2023)
For more information see: 
Chicago style requires that you cite AI generated content in your work by including either a note or a parenthetical citation, but advises you not to include that source in your bibliography or reference list. The date for the citation will be when the content was generated. (Recommendations from CMS as of Spring 2023)
Format:
1. Author, Title, Publisher, Date, URL. 
Example (if information about the prompt has been included within the text of your paper):
1. Text generated by ChatGPT, OpenAI, March 7, 2023, https://chat.openai.com/chat. 
Example (including information about the prompt):
1. ChatGPT, response to "Explain how to make pizza dough from common household ingredients," OpenAI, March 7, 2023, https://chat.openai.com/chat.
For more information see: 
MLA currently is offering a more flexible example citing commonly used AI tools. Users are encouraged to adapt those guidelines to fit the situation. MLA views AI generated content as a source with no author. (Recommendations from MLA as of Spring 2023)
Format:
"Description of chat" prompt. Name of AI tool, version of AI tool, Company, Date of chat, URL.
Example: 
"Examples of harm reduction initiatives" prompt. ChatGPT, 23 Mar. version, OpenAI, 4 Mar. 2023, https://chat.openai.com/chat.
In-Text Citation Example:
("Examples of harm reduction")
For more information see: 
Plagiarism representing someone's work as your own without crediting the source. While you may not see this as stealing content, reusing AI generated works without crediting or noting that it's AI still meets this definition of plagiarism.
Using AI or generative AI doesn't automatically mean you're guilty of plagiarism. You always need to cite your sources and pay attention to the parameters of the assignment as defined by your instructor. You also need to be aware of any policies that exist within your college/department or at UCSS.
The best place to check for information about using AI for assignments first will be your class syllabus. Faculty members include lots of great information for students about plagiarism and what is or is not allowed in their classes within their syllabus. Check to see if there is a policy regarding use of AI!
Similarly, be aware of policies across UCCS that relate to ethical use of materials. These will probably be updated and changed as time go on to reflect AI, but will include information about things like plagiarism too. There is an overarching campus-wide policy students want to be aware of, but your department or college may have unique specifics too that apply to your disciple. Below are links to UCCS policy and a couple policies of individual colleges too.
These examples are NOT comprehensive to the entire campus, and speaking to your instructor will ALWAYS be your best source of information!
