Clemson University official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://ccit.clemson.edu/cybersecurity/it-procedures-guidelines/ai-guidelines/
Purpose

Generative artificial intelligence (AI) describes algorithms that can be used to create new content, including audio, code, images, text, simulations, and videos. The rise in capabilities and ease of access of ChatGPT and other AI services provides exciting potential as a tool for research, programming, data processing and other applications. However, when using publicly available AI services, as with any technology, Clemson University employees, students and affiliates are obligated to protect and preserve the data we use at Clemson University every day.

This page is provided as a resource on University policies and responsibilities for University employees, students and affiliates as they explore these new technologies and their capabilities.  This page will be regularly updated as additional guidance and regulations are developed.

 
AI Risks

    Entered data is retained and used to train models which can lead to a data breach.

    Generative AI tools may produce erroneous responses that seem credible, sometimes referred to as “hallucinations”.

    Generative AI systems could be trained on copyrighted, proprietary, or sensitive data, without the owner’s or subject’s knowledge or consent.

 
AI Best Practices

    Enter only public data into an AI system. Opt out of sharing data for AI learning whenever possible.

    Verify any results through authoritative sources.

    Consider legal, regulatory, and ethical obligations when using AI.

    Be transparent in disclosing and citing the use of AI tools.

 
Related University Policies and Guidance

Clemson University has multiple policies that help protect University data.  University employees, students and affiliates must not enter Internal Use, Confidential, or Restricted institutional data into publicly available generative AI tools.  This includes details like student information, personnel records, confidential University information from contracts or grants, and any proprietary or non-public intellectual property. Make sure that the information you submit is Public and doesn’t contain any personally identifiable or sensitive data.

Below are some of the relevant policies and standards that can help ensure that privacy and security are maintained, and guide decision making.

Acceptable Use of IT Resources Policy

    Use of IT Resources must comply with University policies and legal obligations (including licenses and contracts), and all federal and state laws. Specific prohibitions include illegal uploading of copyright materials.
    Mandates reporting of policy violations.

Data Classification Policy

    Provides descriptions of data classification categories.
    Sets requirement to safeguard data in accordance with the Minimum IT Security Standards based on data classification category.

IT Vendor Management Policy

    All IT solutions (including generative AI tools and services), whether obtained through procurement, by gift, through research, donation, open source, or other means, must be approved by the IT Vendor Management Program Team before the new IT solution can be used.

FERPA

    Provides prohibitions around the disclosure of student education records.

Academic Catalog

    Plagiarism, which includes the intentional or unintentional copying of language, structure, or ideas of another and attributing the work to one’s own efforts. Graded works generated by artificial intelligence or ghostwritten (either paid or free) are expressly forbidden.

Research Misconduct Policy

    Plagiarism is the appropriation of another person’s ideas, processes, results, or words without giving appropriate credit.

Policy and Guidance 	Key points relevant to AI
Information Security Policy 	

    The University’s IT Resources are managed in accordance with applicable policies, procedures, standards, and guidelines. The University’s IT Resources include all Computing Devices and Information Systems that access, store, or process Information within the University Computer Network or in a vendor hosted cloud environment.
    The University’s Information is classified, stored, protected, and transmitted in accordance with applicable policies, procedures, standards, and guidelines. This includes all Information pertaining to student records, administration, research projects, and federal or state Information pertaining to the University.
