East Carolina University official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://ofe.ecu.edu/office-for-faculty-excellence/resources-for-teaching-and-research-with-artificial-intelligence-ai/

Generative Artificial Intelligence (AI) technologies have become more widely accessible and they continue to evolve rapidly. Below are links to some of the resources and conversations on campus around teaching and research in the age of Artificial Intelligence (AI).
 
Click Here to View Recordings from the Technology Tailgate Sessions!
The topic for the Fall 2023 Technology Tailgate is “Artificial Intelligence in the Realm of Teaching, Learning, and Research” This online mini-conference explores the latest advancements and applications of AI in the realm of Teaching, Learning, and Research.  The event aims to bring together educators, researchers, technologists, and AI enthusiasts to share their knowledge, experiences, and best practices in leveraging AI to transform education and research.
For any inquiries or questions, please contact Wendy Creasey – creaseyw@ecu.edu.
During the Spring 2023 Semester, the ECU DELT committee coordinated faculty panels to discuss emerging questions, practices, benefits and challenges related to artificial intelligence in the realm of teaching and research. You can watch the recordings of those sessions below.
Students want to know your expectations for using AI tools in your course. Provide transparent information about your expectations and how they align with course goals and scholarly values. Include information in the syllabus and on assignments, particularly if there is variability in when or how much AI use is allowable. As AI tools become increasingly embedded in existing technologies, students may be in situations where it is unclear how the use of the tool relates to your expectations of them. If the students are unsure, please ask them to contact you for clarification. The LibGuide linked here has been developed by the ECU Library team to provide information and guidance.
The Distance Education and Learning Technology Committee has collaborated with library faculty and the Office of Digital Learning and Emerging Technology Initiatives to provide recommended syllabus language regarding artificial intelligence (AI) and its use in courses.  The full language and information can be found in the Generative AI in the Classroom & Research LibGuide. Below are the suggested statements, which should be modified to fit your course. These statements were adapted from the University of Delaware’s Considerations for using and addressing advanced automated tools in coursework and assignments (Center for Teaching & Assessment of Learning, retrieved April 24, 2023, from https://ctal.udel.edu/advanced-automated-tools/). If you have any questions, please direct them to Professor Melinda Doty, Chair of the Distance Education and Learning Technology Committee. 
Students are not allowed to use advanced automated tools (artificial intelligence or machine learning tools such as ChatGPT or Dall-E 2) on assignments in this course. Each student is expected to complete each assignment without substantive assistance from others, including automated tools.
Students are allowed to use advanced automated tools (artificial intelligence or machine learning tools such as ChatGPT or Dall-E 2) on assignments in this course if instructor permission is obtained in advance. Unless given permission to use those tools, each student is expected to complete each assignment without substantive assistance from others, including automated tools. 
If permission is granted to use advanced automated tools (artificial intelligence or machine learning tools such as ChatGPT or Dall-E 2), they must be properly documented and credited. Students should seek out the appropriate source (e.g., MLA, APA, etc..) and cite in the most correct format according to the style guide. Note, online style guides are being updated continually to include new sources such as ChatGPT. 
If a tool is used in an assignment, students must also include a brief (2-3 sentences) description of how they used the tool, in addition to citing the use of any tool used.
Students are allowed to use advanced automated tools (artificial intelligence or machine learning tools such as ChatGPT or Dall-E 2) on assignments in this course if that use is properly documented and credited. Students should seek out the appropriate source (e.g., MLA, APA, etc..) and cite in the most correct format according to the style guide. Note, online style guides are being updated continually to include new sources such as ChatGPT. 
If a tool is used in an assignment, students must also include a brief (2-3 sentences) description of how they used the tool, in addition to citing the use of any tool used.
Adapted from the “Artificial Intelligence (AI) in Teaching and Learning” website created by the Iowa State University Center for Excellence in Learning and Teaching (Iowa State Online. Center for Excellence in Learning and Teaching. (n.d.). https://www.celt.iastate.edu/resources/ai-teach-learn/)
In addition to assignment ideas presented in the Joyner Library Generative AI in the Classroom & Research LibGuide, listed below are examples of how instructors might adjust assignments and assessment techniques to embrace AI.
Several strategies can be employed when developing assignments and assessments to help ensure students submit original work and discourage academic misconduct.
Note: When developing assignments and projects, it is essential to recognize that not all AI tools are designed for universal accessibility, which may limit their use for students.
If you are interested in experimenting with AI in your course, explore the assignment suggestions in Update Your Course Syllabus for chatGPT by Ryan Watkins and Understanding AI Writing Tools and their Uses for Teaching and Learning at UC Berkeley by Berkeley’s Center for Teaching & Learning. Todd Finley (ECU College of Education) shared this blog post about ways he envisions his students can learn to use the technology. The examples below are adapted from those resources as potential ways to incorporate AI into your course assignments.
Similar to using TurnItIn software to detect plagiarism, there are tools designed to detect AI-generated content. However, it is important to note that there are limitations to using these tools, and there is no guarantee they are fully accurate. There could also be a variety of unintended consequences. A blog post by University of Mississippi instructor Marc Watkins describes this issue and shows examples of output from multiple detection tools.
The ECU Libguide strongly recommends faculty remind their students to always cite when using any AI tool to assist with an assignment. Additionally, The Office of Student Rights and Responsibilities has created several Academic Syllabus Statements that you can add to your syllabi. They have created faculty resources and upholding academic integrity activities for inclusion in your course.
One of the early sessions in the Fall 2023 HOiST series addresses challenges, strengths, and opportunities for collaboration.
“ChatGPT and other AI Tools: How to Integrate Successfully on Campus” – Thursday, 9/14 at 2:30 pm: ChatGPT and other artificial intelligence tools are making waves across higher education, but many schools are still figuring out how to appropriately manage expectations and maximize benefits. This discussion will highlight challenges, strengths and opportunities for collaboration as we navigate the new frontiers of AI on campus.
Join here | Register Here
 
 
