Eastern College official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://libguides.eastern.edu/c.php?g=1338027
Artificial Intelligence, also known as AI, is "a machine’s ability to perform the cognitive functions we usually associate with human minds" (2023). This guide specifically talks about Generative AI, which is when an AI system generates text, images, and other forms of media as a response to a prompt. Generative AI is a powerful tool, and students can learn from this guide how to use it to benefit them during their academic journey, as well as knowing its limitations in academia, and how to avoid plagiarism.
Artificial intelligence makes it possible for machines to learn from experience, adjust to new inputs, and perform human-like tasks. Most AI examples that you hear about today – from chess-playing computers to self-driving cars – rely heavily on deep learning and natural language processing. Using these technologies, computers can be trained to accomplish specific tasks by processing large amounts of data and recognizing patterns in the data.
Read more about AI and its history here.

AI Syllabus Statement from Eastern University:

Use technology responsibly. Unless explicitly stated in the assignment guidelines, students are prohibited from using AI or AI-enabled generative tools to replace aspects of academic assessments, including but not limited to full or partial automated text generation, plagiarism detection evasion, or unauthorized data analysis. Students must not submit content generated by AI systems without proper attribution and citation. The use of AI tools to aid in content creation should be within the bounds permitted by the instructor, and must be used only to supplement, and not replace, the student's own knowledge, understanding, and effort. 
Good Examples of AI Use 	Bad Examples of AI Use

    Using AI as a starting point
         It's okay to use AI to better understand your topic.

	

    Using AI as a search engine
        Generative AI can present false, outdated, and/or biased information.

    Using AI to edit text
        It's okay to use AI to check spelling and grammar.
        You can use text generative tools to help with writer's block by viewing your ideas written in a different way, but do not copy and take credit for words that are not your own.

	

    Using AI to write for you
        It is unethical to use words you did not write and pass them off as your own. Professors are able to catch this, and it will be considered plagiarism.
        It is important to include your own voice and thoughts in your work. Using AI Generative Text can hinder this.
What is plagiarism?

The practice of taking someone else's work or ideas and passing them off as one's own.

Is AI-generated text, like ChatGPT, okay to use in an academic setting?

Yes, it is okay to use AI-generated text (with permission from your professor) to learn more about a topic. Keep in mind that AI is not always 100% factual and free from bias, and users should always double-check that the information they are using is true. This can be done by using scholarly resources and other resources that are fact-checked using the CRAAP method. Click HERE to learn more about evaluating resources.

Do I need to cite AI-generated text even though there is no single individual for coming up with the text?

Yes, you absolutely need to cite AI-generated text. Even though the information is not written by a living individual, any writing in an academic paper or project that is not cited is considered to be the writer's own original work. It is unethical to try to pass off work on one's own if that person did not create it.

How do I cite AI?

Check out our Copyright page on this guide to learn how to cite AI.
