Faulkner University official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://www.faulkner.edu/news/the-role-of-artificial-intelligence-in-online-learning/
Faulkner University
A Christian University



Artificial intelligence (AI) is growing rapidly, with generative AI forecasted to become a $1.3 trillion market by 2032. Many sectors have been leveraging this technology to innovate processes, including higher education. For colleges and universities, the impact of AI is particularly felt with online learning (eLearning). Faulkner University in Alabama offers numerous online degree programs. Here, we examine the role of AI in online learning to regularly enhance programs and better meet students’ needs. Discover some areas where AI is changing online learning.
A common challenge with online learning is the tedious task of creating and curating content. Traditionally, online programs are made using long-form modules. With this approach, it can take hours to develop just one hour of training material.
AI offers several techniques that enhance the creation and curation of eLearning content. Machine learning algorithms analyze large sets of data, uncovering new findings that course creators can implement into sessions. These tools are particularly beneficial for fields subject to constant development, such as science and technology. They ensure content is always up to date.
With tools like natural language processing and language modeling, AI can create rough outlines of course content, eliminating some time-consuming effort when creating content at scale. Humans fill in the gaps, ensuring the content is coherent and accessible for students. The time saved means more learning content can be created at a faster pace.
Colleges want to create the best learning experience for all students. A common strategy is adapting content to the specific abilities and learning goals of different students. In an in-person program, instructors typically handle adapting programs, but such a task proves difficult with online learning as students work independently and at their own pace.
AI-powered adaptive learning uses algorithms to evaluate a student’s abilities and identify gaps where they require more support. It also examines how each student interacts with course content to make real-time adjustments that empower a greater understanding of concepts.
The same technology e-commerce platforms use to help online shoppers can enhance online learning. Virtual assistance tools, such as chatbots, enable intelligent tutoring systems in which students receive personalized support whenever they need it.
Around-the-clock tutoring is advantageous, as many eLearning programs don’t follow a set schedule. Instead, students complete their classwork at times that best fit their schedules. Problems arise if they have questions outside the professor’s business hours. Virtual tutors deliver immediate responses to questions, preventing students from potentially waiting days for an answer to a question from the instructor.
AI tutors collect data from their interactions with students, which allows them to personalize further assistance. For instance, these tools may recommend exercises and resources to help students better grasp a challenging concept.
By and large, grading is still done manually, even though it’s one of the most tedious tasks for instructors. Concerns about plagiarism and cheating can explain the reliance on manual grading.
Advanced AI has simplified grading by analyzing whether students have the right answer and the rationale students use to arrive at such answers. These tools aren’t just helpful for simple, multiple choice-based exams; colleges also use them for complex written assignments.
AI tools can be paired with plagiarism detection technologies to spot suspicious similarities between multiple students’ work. It may also analyze each student’s writing style to determine if another student completed work for a peer.
AI assessment tools aren’t just for eliminating the bad – instructors can use them to improve feedback and identify a student’s strengths and weaknesses. By better understanding a student’s progress with the course material, professors can make the necessary adjustments to ensure all students stay on track toward completing the program.
Gamification refers to the strategy of adding game-like elements to non-game contexts to better engage students. Studies have shown that gamification impacts student performance.
Gamification is innovative in and of itself, but colleges can use AI to enhance its benefits. For example, AI tools can tweak gamification experiences to match the different levels of difficulty each student has reached. This ensures game elements continue to motivate students, instead of frustrating them and making them feel like giving up. It can also recommend new activities once it appears a student is losing interest to ensure they stay engaged.
As AI technologies continue to evolve, higher learning institutions will need to reevaluate their programs and ensure they incorporate the tools that are most helpful for their students. At Faulkner University, we understand the value of eLearning and work to deliver students the same experience in our online degree programs they would receive in our traditional, in-person programs. At the same time, our programs offer the flexibility you need to earn a degree on your own time, and competitive tuition rates make achieving your educational goals accessible. Financial aid is available to those who qualify.
Request information to learn more about our online degree programs, or apply today.
Tweets by @FaulknerEdu  
