Florida Institute of Technology official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://www.fit.edu/faculty-profiles/w/white-ryan/

                      Florida Tech’s approach to academics is research-driven, high-tech and hands-on, allowing our students to both gain knowledge and get real experience applying it. Here, you don’t just learn—you do.                      

                      It is through research that faculty members advance their fields, students enhance their learning, and the university creates change for the benefit of our planet and all of its inhabitants.                      


                      Ready for the future? Whether you hope to join the Florida Tech family as a freshman, transfer student or graduate student, your journey to Panther-hood starts here.                        
Apply
Get Info
Visit 


                      What's it like to live and learn at Florida Tech? The answer differs for every student, but you can count on one thing: The people here are friendly, open-minded and passionate about their work.
                      

Please reference the Faculty Profile Editing Guide if you have any questions or issues updating your profile. If you receive any error notices please contact webservices@fit.edu.



            Assistant Professor
           |
          College of Engineering and Science - Mathematics and Systems Engineering
        








I regularly teach undergraduate and graduate courses in deep learning, machine learning, and probability, as well as honors calculus courses.
My academic background is in probability theory, stochastic processes, and the underlying mathematics: in short, the study of randomness.
I lead the NEural TransmissionS (NETS) Lab. We focus on developing deep learning models, traditional machine learning, and statistical analysis for applications in aerospace, life sciences, and glaciology.
Outside academia, I have industrial experience in algorithm development, data science, and educational writing as well as current projects with non-profit Engage-AI using machine learning to extract insights for global development data.
Ph.D. Applied Mathematics - Florida Institute of Technology, 2015Dissertation: Random Walks on Random Lattices and Their Applications to Strategic Network DefenseAdvisor: Dr. J. H. Dshalalow
M.S. Applied Mathematics - Florida Institute of Technology, 2012
B.S. Mathematics - Chadron State College, 2008
Florida Institute of Technology, 2013-present
Assistant Professor, 2019-present
Instructor, 2015-2019
Graduate Student Assistant, 2013-2015
Engage-AI, Senior Advisor on Data Sciences, Oct 2020 - Present
Spencer Trask Collaborative Innovations, Intern with VenCorps: Community Powered Capital, Aug 2008 - Nov 2008
See my Google Scholar profile for an up-to-date list of publications.
Publications as of Jan 1, 2024:
 
Information Theoretic Learning and Explainable Convolutional Neural Networks. U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. (Role: PI; $49,735, 2023-24)
Data Engineering and Analysis of Sustainable Development and Labor Trends in Morocco. Engage-AI. (Role: PI; $1200; 2022)
Object Tracking and Image Segmentation with Low Compute/Energy Budget. NVIDIA Applied Research Accelerator Program. (Role: PI; $7500; 2021-)
Semantic Segmentation of Glaciers from Satellite Imagery. European Space Agency. (Role: PI; $1424; 2021-23)
Machine Intelligence System for Autonomous Feature Recognition and Trajectory Planning Around Non-Cooperative Resident Space Objects. US Air Force Research Lab Space Vehicles Directorate. (Role: PI; $489500; 2021-22)
REU - Statistical Models with Applications to Geoscience (SMAG). National Science Foundation. (Role: faculty mentor; $309436; 2021-23)
Google Cloud Platform Educational Grant. Google. (Role: PI; $5050; 2020-201)
2022-23: Honored as top performer in teaching in the Department of Mathematics and Systems Engineering
2019 Professor of the Year for the College of Science and Engineering by the Florida Tech Student Government Association
My academic background is in probability theory, stochastic processes, and the underlying mathematics: in short, the study of randomness.
I lead the NEural TransmissionS (NETS) Lab. We focus on developing deep learning models, traditional machine learning, and statistical analysis.
In addition to some smaller-scale projects and collaborations, our ongoing projects include:
Object detection for satellite feature recognition and real-time flightpath planning -- collaboration with Dr. Markus Wilde and the ORION Research Lab.
Includes developing a novel object tracking algorithm for edge hardware with my PhD student Monty (Nehru) Attzs
Includes work funded by the U.S. Air Force Research Laboratory
Computer vision-based 6-DOF pose estimation for rigid bodies--that is, estimating the 3D position and orientation with a team of undergraduate students.
Includes 3D modeling for synthetic data generation
Glacier segmentation in multispectral satellite imagery with neural networks with undergraduate students Emily Happy, Anthony Garcia, and Neel Shettigar.
Includes work for funded by the National Science Foundation
Development of an app for clinical facial landmark tracking for diagnosing neurological disorders with my MS student William Harrington.
Probability and Stochastic Analysis: random walks, stochastic processes
Operational calculus analysis of stochastic models of networks, in queueing, games, and reliability
Probability flux, density tracking, and related algorithms
Mathematics of Life Sciences:
Cell growth models and proliferation of mutations
Statistical analysis of benthic communities in the Indian River Lagoon
Detecting DNA promoter sequences
Monty (Nehru) Attzs -- real-time object detection under heavy computational constraints
Minh Nguyen -- deep representation learning for electronic health records
Mackenzie Meni -- explainable AI for computer vision
Undergraduate Research Students
Emma Sandidge -- 3D modeling of spacecraft on orbit
Past Students
MS Thesis Students
William Harrington -- clinical facial landmark tracking, data collection with simple smartphone depth cameras, app development
William Stern -- ML in global development data
Andrew Ekblad -- satellite feature recognition
Steven Holmberg, Sam Lovelace, Josseanne Duarte, Dylan Barnes -- space robotics
Undergraduate Research Students
Joey Weatherwax, Giulio Martini -- computer vision-based 3D pose estimation 
Anthony Garcia and Emily Happy -- Semantic Segmentation of Glaciers in Multispectral Satellite Imagery with Deep Neural Networks (2022)
Alex Bugielski and Nikhil Iyer -- Spacecraft Pose Estimation with Deep Learning (2022)
Candice Chambers -- Multi-Language Handwriting Recognition with Trees of CNN Ensembles (2021)
Graham Neutstel -- Last Exits of 2D Random Walks (2021)
Abulla Al-Nabit and Hanibal Alazar -- An AI-Enhanced Data Platform for Sustainable Global Development (2021)
Kelly van Woesik -- Tuning Tuna Models with Machine Learning (2021)
 
Slides are available for many of these talks, and more at my website at publications and presentations.

          150 W. University Blvd.
          Melbourne, FL 32901
        

(321) 674-8000

