Georgetown University official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://cndls.georgetown.edu/ai/policies/
Join a conversation group that focuses on a specific teaching topic
Teaching skills program designed for students who are teaching or TAing
Program for faculty on bringing conversations about difference into the classroom
Program for faculty on incorporating wellbeing activities and perspectives into the classroom
Design and Develop Online Programs
Program connecting faculty with students who provide technical support for online courses
New program for building and sustaining inclusive learning experiences
Archive of former initiatives
Annual multi-day institute exploring topics in pedagogy through workshops, keynotes, and more
A self-paced offering of our 3-unit course on teaching in a hybrid or remote environment
Learn more about what we do
Have a chat with us in person, join virtual office hours, and other ways to get help with teaching
A collection of tips to guide your inclusive teaching practice
Explore teaching tools available to you at Georgetown
Opportunities to discuss teaching together
Enrich your teaching practice with extended support
Explore tools and services offered at GU
Work with us to explore and create custom media products
Develop, align and assess learning goals and curricula
Explore our upcoming workshops, training, talks, and other events
Meet with us in online office hours or schedule 1:1 conversation
Create an equitable, inclusive teaching environment
Learn how to using digital tools in your teaching
Meet with us in online office hours or schedule 1:1 conversation
Find answers to your program measurement questions
Work with us to create a set of online offerings
Spaces designed for flexible, multimodal teaching
Teaching skills program designed for students who are teaching or TAing
Coming Soon
Learn more about what we do
Have a chat with us in person, join virtual office hours, and other ways to get help with teaching
A collection of tips to guide your inclusive teaching practice
Explore teaching tools available to you at Georgetown
Tips and support for the day-to-day of teaching class
Ideas for designing your courses or course sequences
Resources to help you bring inclusive practices to your teaching
Suggestions and ideas for authentic learning assessment
Tips and support for teaching in a variety of instructional modes
Resources and guidance on using technology in your teaching
Scholarship and resources on the science of learning
A collection of tips to guide your inclusive teaching practice
Chat with a CNDLS teaching professional and get help with your teaching
Explore teaching tools available to you at Georgetown
Resources and support for teaching with Artificial Intelligence tools
Browse our alphabetized list of teaching topics
Approaches to course-level policies, as well as University policies to include in your syllabus
Teach effectively amid interruptions to face-to-face learning
Conversations with students, faculty, and staff about teaching and learning in higher education
Learn more about what we do
Have a chat with us in person, join virtual office hours, and other ways to get help with teaching
A collection of tips to guide your inclusive teaching practice
Explore teaching tools available to you at Georgetown
Our work and core commitments at a glance
Learn about our focus areas and publications
Read our latest posts on teaching, learning and innovation
Coming Soon
cndls@georgetown.edu
202-687-0625
Car Barn 314
3520 Prospect St. NW, Suite 314 Washington, DC 20007
"Ring our doorbell" and a CNDLS staff member will reach out to you immediately
Meet CNDLS staff and collaborators
Coming Soon
Join our vibrant and mission-driven team
Learn more about what we do
Have a chat with us in person, join virtual office hours, and other ways to get help with teaching
A collection of tips to guide your inclusive teaching practice
Explore teaching tools available to you at Georgetown
“The question of how to acknowledge [AI-generated intellectual work], and whether it is to be allowed at all, is answered by individual course policies. It is, as always, the students’ responsibility to be sure that they are following the rules laid out by their professors. Note that, as with all source material, this applies both to work taken directly from the AI generator and to work that has been paraphrased before being used in coursework. If you didn’t generate the words yourself, say so by quoting and citing the source; if you generated the words but not the content and ideas, say so by citing the source.” (Georgetown Honor Council’s Standards of Conduct Policy, 2023)
As students become more familiar with these tools, clear policies related to their use will ensure students understand what is and isn’t acceptable in your course. As always, be clear with your assessment criteria, how they relate to learning goals, and share successful examples of assignments to best support learning.
Perhaps most important, communicating clear expectations and policies creates a climate of trust in an equitable and inclusive teaching practice. In a recent survey conducted by Inside Higher Ed and College Pulse with support from Kaplan, 2,000 students from 98 universities indicated that “Black and Asian/Asian American students reported being accused of plagiarism more than any other group (12 percent for both groups, versus 6 percent of all students). Further, Black students were the most likely to report being accused of cheating in college (9 percent of Black students reported being accused of cheating in a college course, compared to 6 percent of all students)” (Tichavakunda, 2022). Be clear with your students about what constitutes plagiarism, considering these biases.
Keep in mind that the Georgetown Honor Code's Standards of Conduct directs students to refer to course syllabi for specific policies related to plagiarism and using AI. The policy also states that students using AI-generated text and representing it as their own work constitutes a violation of academic integrity. If your students are permitted to use AI tools in your course, in any capacity, be sure to discuss your expectations with them. More University and course-level policies can be found on our Teaching Related Policies page.
At bird's eye view, there are three general approaches to addressing AI in your course policy. Feel free to adapt the language below as it fits your course:
"New AI text generation tools may be helpful tools for this course and indeed your future professional lives. Some assignments in this course will require the explicit and intentional use of generative AI. When using and AI generator in your work, including in those assignment, the AI generator used to support your work must be included as a source/citation."
"New AI text generation tools may be able to generate ideas/topics for your assignments, formulate structure for your written work, and can even help you find existing research on the topic. These uses are permitted in this course. The writing and revising, however, must be your own; you may not use AI text generators to write any portion of the paper itself, and using AI tools in this way will be treated as a case of plagiarism and referred to the Honor Council. The AI generator used to support your work must be included as a source/citation."
"In this course, your ideas and your voice are what matters. Using AI text generation tools at any stage of working on your assignments (idea generation, looking for sources, outlining/organizing, writing, revising, etc.) would make it much harder for me to evaluate and respond helpfully to your work, since I wouldn’t be able to tell what’s coming from you. As such, you’re not permitted to use AI text generating tools at any point when working on your assignments, and I will treat the use of AI text generators as academic dishonesty, and will report the incident to the Honor Council."
The rapidly changing technological landscape opens up important opportunities for learning and inquiry, and in general, we will seek to integrate AI into the course in a constructive way (rather than prohibit or penalize its use). Throughout the semester, Fr. Carnes will suggest ways to use AI to enhance your learning, and you are free to use it when conducting research, studying, and writing. In some cases, you may be explicitly required to use it.
In keeping with academic integrity, you will be expected to cite and disclose every use of AI, and this should be done in the fullest, most transparent way possible. In other words, rather than simply noting that ChatGPT or Bard was used in your paper, say exactly where and how it was used, employing footnotes or bubble comments to provide a running commentary on what the AI did, how you used or adapted it or even rejected it, etc. For example, this might be that you used it to generate the initial question or hypothesis you employed, or to propose possible data sources or interesting comparisons, or even to provide precise language or text (which of course would then need to appear within quotation marks). Being more complete is always to your advantage, and conversely, not disclosing use of these tools will be considered a violation of the Honor Code.
By describing exactly how you use these tools, you will be able to distinguish the unique contribution you make as a thinking, breathing Georgetown student. Hopefully this will help us all clarify and refine how these tools can best be utilized, and also aid you in being able to tell future employers what you will add to their efforts over and above what they could get through AI.
As a wise person once said, writing is thinking. That is why it is often hard. You may use AI programs such as ChatGPT to help generate ideas and brainstorm, but you may not submit any text generated by an AI program as your own. Instead, if you include text generated by an AI program, it must be cited like any other reference. However, keep in mind that the material generated by these programs may be flat-out wrong, correct but mediocre, or otherwise problematic. This means your own expertise will be crucial for allowing you to successfully integrate this tool into your work. The only way to develop that expertise is use the class to learn about the subject matter of global politics—which means limiting your use of AI.
Also, keep in mind that the development of your expert analytic and writing skills will determine your post-Georgetown success. If you do not want to be replaced by AI, you therefore need to make sure you are doing the foundational work that will provide value added in any future endeavor.
To help you to navigate the new world of AI, all of your writing must be done using the “Collaborations” google doc workspace in Canvas. See the Appendix for more information.
The goal of this course and any tool used to submit work is to enhance your own learning and understanding, not to undermine or stifle it. AI tools (like chatGPT) may be used as you would any other reference source – to help generate ideas and brainstorm. It is not a replacement for your original work. As with other reference tools, the use of such tools must be appropriately acknowledged and cited. It is also your responsibility to assess the validity and applicability of any AI output; you bear the final responsibility of your work. The use of AI tools is limited to those that are currently free to the public to use and open access. For any questions on the use of AI in the classroom please ask the instructor.
Here is the Georgetown University policy:
“The question of how to acknowledge [AI-generated intellectual work], and whether it is to be allowed at all, is answered by individual course policies. It is, as always, the students’ responsibility to be sure that they are following the rules laid out by their professors. Note that, as with all source material, this applies both to work taken directly from the AI generator and to work that has been paraphrased before being used in coursework. If you didn’t generate the words yourself, say so by quoting and citing the source; if you generated the words but not the content and ideas, say so by citing the source.” (Georgetown Honor Council’s Standards of Conduct Policy, 2023)
Here are my rules for this course:
In this course, your ideas and your voice are what matters. I allow using AI text generation tools ONLY as a tool for idea generation and looking for sources. If you use Ai tools you must cite that. As the Georgetown policy states: "If you didn’t generate the words yourself, say so by quoting and citing the source; if you generated the words but not the content and ideas, say so by citing the source.”
When it comes to outlining and organizing your papers, please note in the Syllabus that I require you to send me a short outline or concept of your paper before you write. I plan to sit down with each student separately to discuss how you will approach organizing and writing about your selected subject.
Using AI text generators to write your papers defeats the purpose of going through the learning process of writing and revising. So I will treat the use of AI text generators to write your papers as academic dishonesty, and will report the incident to the Honor Council.
Part of treating others with respect is giving appropriate credit for ideas and scholarly works (including code). If you consult with other students on an assignment, report this in the work that you turn in. If in your code you use a library or implementation from another source, indicate that as well (minimally by including a URL in a comment). Do not generate new content with prompt-based AI tools like ChatGPT or CodePilot without permission from instructors unless specifically allowed by the assignment. (Using, for example, Grammarly as a language aid is OK.) Instructors reserve the right to request an oral explanation of answers.
Large language models, such as ChatGPT (chat.openai.com) are rapidly changing the tools available to people writing code. Given their use out in the world, the view we will take in this class is that it does not make sense to ban the use of such tools in our problem sets or projects. For now, here is my guidance on how these can and should be used in our class: First and foremost, note that output from ChatGPT can often be confidently wrong! Run your code and check any output to make sure that this actually works. Such AI assistants will give you a good first guess, but these are really empowering for users who invest in being able to tell when the output is correct or not.If you use ChatGPT or similar resources, credit it at the top of your problem set as you would a programming partner. Where you use direct language or code from ChatGPT, please cite this as you would information taken from other sources more generally.
Save the content above in this document version of Syllabus Policies developed by Georgetown faculty.
Because AI technology has been incorporated into teaching and learning for some time—think of tools like Grammarly or even simple spell check—it can be difficult to decide what students are and are not permitted to use in your course, and even in each assignment. (Polishing a document using Grammarly may not be in the same category as generating an entire essay using GPT-4, for example.)
Below, see sample language faculty have used to distinguish what students are able to use per assignment/assessment:
See examples of redesigned and new assignments on the Assignments tab.

See University Policy above.
The short answer is yes. Students are being guided to refer to individual course and assignment policies outlined by the instructor to determine whether or not they're able to use AI tools at any stage in an assignment. The Chronicle's "Should You Add an AI Policy to Your Syllabus?" by Kevin Gannon (July 2023) offers guiding questions to help you get started.
While there are many AI-detection tools available, it's more likely that students would use AI in instances where the expectations and parameters were unclear. Review your course and assignment instructions, and consider where AI could be used at various stages in an assignment's development process. University policy states that "If you didn’t generate the words yourself, say so by quoting and citing the source; if you generated the words but not the content and ideas, say so by citing the source."
If you suspect an assignment has been completed dishonestly, refer to the Honor Council's resources for faculty.
If an assignment's policy is clear, and an assignment submission still seems like it has been partly or fully developed by an AI tool, it may make sense to talk to your student(s) first to clear up any confusion. If the assignment is clearly in violation of a course policy, it may warrant following the Honor System’s procedure.
CNDLS staff are available to consult with faculty regarding all matters of teaching, including how to manage, innovate, and integrate AI tools. Reach out to us at cndls@georgetown.edu for an individual or group consultation.
Learn more about data collection and privacy on our Resources by Topic page.

