Georgia State University official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://www.gsu.edu/program/artificial-intelligence-business-innovation-graduate-certificate/
ALL PROGRAMS | Robinson College of Business Programs
Georgia residents: $3,654 per semester
Non-Georgia residents: $8,508 per semester
Nonrefundable seat deposit: $250
Tuition is subject to change.
Please note: the above tuition rates apply to new non-degree-seeking students. Current master's students who embed a certificate within their degree will be charged at a different rate. See the Tuition tab below to learn more.
The program can be completed in as little as 9 months (2 semesters).

Where can I take classes?
Online
Only online classes are available at this time.
Application Deadlines View Admissions Requirements
Domestic Applicants
We offer various application deadlines to U.S. residents. By applying earlier in the cycle, you will receive priority consideration for a graduate assistantship. After the final deadline, applications are accepted on a rolling basis until one week before class starts.
International Applicants
International applicants who need a student visa must apply by an earlier, hard deadline.
Note: This program does not qualify for an I-20.
Find your deadline
Please note:
You must submit all your application materials by the deadline to receive a decision within that round. If application volumes are high, notification might be delayed.
Spring 2024
Fall 2024
For priority consideration for a graduate assistantship, apply by round 2.
International applicants who need a student visa are encouraged to apply as early as possible, and must apply by the round 3 deadline.
Institute for Insight
Online Program, [email protected]
Attend virtual office hours with one of our recruiters to get your questions answered.
New tools and packages are rapidly democratizing the field of data science, giving rise to the role of “citizen data scientists”—professionals who may not have deep programming skills but, with the right tools, are capable of leveraging advanced technologies as well as working with and leading teams of data scientists to create value and realize the potential of artificial intelligence. A recent Gartner study projects the number of citizen data scientists will grow five times faster than the number of expert data scientists in the next few years.
The Artificial Intelligence Innovation Certificate program is designed with the citizen data scientist in mind. You will examine AI-related concepts that lead to discovery of innovative solutions to business challenges. Key topics include data programming, machine learning and predictive analytics.
Leverage the Known and Unknown in Our Innovation Studio
What truly sets the certificate apart is our Innovation Studio, which provides an experiential environment for networking and collaboration. As part of an interdisciplinary team, you will test prototypes, design compelling and competitive value propositions and pitch to prospective customers and investors. You also will develop critical soft skills like emotional intelligence, communication and social influence/trust. Via a collision of perspectives and concepts, you will become comfortable with ambiguity and experimentation and build the courage to explore and leverage the known—and unknown—technologies that are profoundly impacting our world.
Available Through Robinson Anywhere
Robinson Anywhere is an advanced education platform that is as close to in-person interaction as it gets. In fact, we think it’s even better. You’ll engage in real-time dialogue with instructors, guest speakers, and partner employers, and hear the perspectives of students from all over the world.
Application Requirements
Learn more about the application process and what you will need to apply.
The program can be completed in as little as 9 months (2 semesters).
Required Courses
Elective Courses (Select One)
Georgia residents: $4,058 per semester
Non-Georgia residents: $8,912 per semester
Nonrefundable seat deposit: $250
Tuition is subject to change.
Please note: the above tuition rates apply to new non-degree-seeking students. Students who are enrolled in a cohort master’s program will be charged at their current cohort tuition rate. Students who are enrolled in the Flexible MBA program will be charged at their current flexible tuition rate.
Contact Graduate Student Financial Services
We are here to help you understand the cost of your program (including the financial aid cost of attendance (https://sfs.gsu.edu/resources/coa/)), the payment schedule and financing opportunities.
[email protected]
404-413-7086
The mission of the Graduate Certificate in Artificial Intelligence Business Innovation is to produce “citizen data scientists”—professionals who may not have deep programming skills but, with the right tools, are capable of leveraging advanced technologies as well as working with and leading teams of data scientists to create value and realize the potential of artificial intelligence.

Connie D. and Ken WomenLead Associate Professor of Law and Analytics;
Founder, Legal Analytics Lab

Lead Data Scientist, DataScan

Retired Assistant Dean for Executive Programs

Director, Media Entrepreneurship & Innovation Programs

Associate Professor
Attend virtual office hours with one of our recruiters to get your questions answered.
Graduate Admissions
[email protected]
Online Program
Richard James
Associate Director, Graduate Recruiting
[email protected]
35 Broad St NW
Atlanta, GA 30303
Send this to a friend
