Husson College official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://www.husson.edu/college-of-business/blog/2023/09/the-strengths-and-limitations-of-generative-ai
When you make a gift on Giving Day, you're supporting the area of campus that means the most to you, and with various matching gift challenges throughout the day, you have the opportunity to make your gift go even further. 
For more information visit www.husson.edu/givingday and be sure to join us on April 3!
Published on:
             September 11, 2023
        
From classic novels to big summer blockbusters, people have long been fascinated by the idea of machines that think. Now, that science fiction is science fact: artificial intelligence (AI) is a reality. And while it's not a full-on thinking robot (yet), numerous AI bots and software are on the market and being used.
This technology has the potential to radically change how people work, communicate and live their lives. To many people, AI is the future and will transform humanity. Others view it as a threat that will eliminate jobs and could even be a potential danger to humanity as a whole. The usage of AI is already a major point of contention in many industries. College campuses are another space where AI is proving to be divisive.
With technological advances like AI, there's no putting the genie back in the bottle. AI is likely here to stay, and learning to engage with it productively is a must. To find out more about AI, how students can use it to enhance their education and work, and how it's impacting the Husson campus, we spoke with Ryan Roderick, assistant professor and assistant dean in the College of Science and Humanities. In addition to teaching courses in Composition Studies, Written Communication and more, Roderick is also part of a faculty task force exploring the usage of AI and its implications for Husson and its students. 
Here's what he had to say:
 
Before digging into how AI is being used, it's important to define exactly what AI is. Essentially, artificial intelligence refers to a machine or software that can think and process in a unique way comparable to – but different from – humans and animals. Utilizing algorithms and other processes, AIs can solve problems, perform tasks and even learn. 
"I think the way a lot of people think about AI is that it is a broad umbrella system that can kind of make decisions and learn in ways that are similar to humans," Roderick explains. "An example would be a program that we teach the rules of chess. It then learns to play and as it plays itself over and over, it continues to learn more strategic moves and play better."
Systems and bots like ChatGPT and DALL-E are generative AIs. That means they are able to use existing data and inputs to create new responses, symbols and expressions (such as words or visual art). Using the example of the chess-playing bot, a generative AI would not only learn to play chess but also converse about the game while playing. 
 
Generative AIs like ChatGPT raise big questions for college faculty and students – questions that Roderick and AI task force are working to answer. Will students use AI to avoid work or even cheat? (For example, by utilizing chatbots to generate research papers instead of writing the papers themselves.) Will AI take away jobs that students are being educated and trained for? On the other hand, if students aren't trained on and comfortable with AI, will they be left behind by a rapidly changing work landscape?
These questions aren't easily answered – this technology is still very new. But for Roderick and his colleagues, the key to finding those answers lies in fully understanding generative AIs, both their strengths and weaknesses. 
Take the cheating question, for example: while some students certainly have used AI tools to complete assignments, Roderick isn't too worried about AI as a tool that will allow cheating. That's because, at least currently, the writing generated by AI tools doesn't quite pass muster. While AI is capable of delivering text that's readable and coherent, it lacks a human touch, coming off tonally formal or cold or even sometimes being too clean. Furthermore, AIs frequently make errors that mark it as the work of a software, not a real person.
"There are indicators," Roderick explains. "For example, I'll see a book referenced in a paper, but then taking a closer look, I'll see that the source exists in the sense that it's a real title, but the author listed didn't write that book. Things like that can lead to a conversation. I try to approach those situations not in an accusatory way, but more like an exploratory process." AI-generated content can also unknowingly incorporate biases and fallacies. "Because it's trained on existing data and uses that existing copy to generate patterns and content, an AI can end up reinforcing biases or stereotypes," Roderick says. 
Still, despite these limitations and concerns, Roderick sees potential in AI as a tool to assist in learning. For example, though ChatGPT may not be able to write a full research paper that meets the demands of a college course, it can help a writer to get started, drafting ideas or an outline that can then be expanded upon. An AI can also offer instant feedback on a student's work, or even help students to understand concepts taught in class. 
That's not all. "I think about the possibility of making learning more accessible to a wider range of students," Roderick says. "You could have a concept or idea taught in class, and then you could use ChatGPT to take that idea and generate some examples or applications of that concept that go beyond what's discussed in class. So a student who walks away confused from class can use AI to clear up that confusion and maybe identify a personal relationship with the subject that wasn't discussed in the lecture."
 
Even in recognizing AI's value as a tool for educators and students, Roderick knows it can't ever really substitute for hard work. He explains, "As an educator, there's a tradeoff with AI. I tell my students – it's challenging to write. But as I go through the process of writing and revising, the work gets better, and after, I feel transformed in a way." 
In other words, even if AI can do the work for you, you're missing out on the growth and development that comes from creating something yourself. And that growth is a central part of what college is all about.
At Husson’s School of Technology and Innovation, we know that AI will continue to be used in a variety of formats and settings, both in school and the workplace. That’s why we’ll work with you to understand this technology. Furthermore, we will work to ensure that whether AI is used in the classroom or as a tool in your schoolwork, it’ll be approached from a positive angle that keeps pace with modern tech trends without depriving you of the value of your Husson education.  
Request more info or apply online today! 
Husson University
  |  
1 College Circle  |  Bangor, Maine
  |  
04401-2929

207.941.7000 | admit@husson.edu

  |  
Copyright © Husson University, 1997-2024
