Kennesaw State University official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://facultydevelopment.kennesaw.edu/institutional-initiatives/ai-teaching-events-resources.php
Center for Excellence in Teaching and Learning
Resources For
ChatGPT, an AI-powered chatbot, has stirred debate across the higher education community,
                     with some claiming artificial intelligence will revolutionize education while others
                     see it as a significant threat. One thing is clear, and that artificial intelligence
                     is here to stay, and it will disrupt current practices, not just in writing, but in
                     the arts, software coding, and many other disciplines. It will become part of our
                     students’ future jobs, which create the need for a new kind of literacy. Higher education
                     must take a proactive role, engaging with this technology, shaping the ways we utilize
                     it, with a critical perspective and an ethical approach.
CETL is committed to promoting research- and evidence-based pedagogies. Unfortunately,
                     the use of AI-based tools in university courses is still new and a consensus on best
                     practices has not emerged yet. Lacking those, we are providing resources on these
                     tools from a variety of perspectives in order to jumpstart your thinking process with
                     issues to consider. 
Derek Bruff is a well-respected faculty developer who has been writing about academic
                                    technologies for decades. In his blog, Agile Learning, he makes the pragmatic case
                                    for teaching with AI. 
The Atlantic was one of the first outlets to call attention to AI. Its first article,
                                    The College Essay Is Dead, rang the alarm and presented a rather pessimistic perspective.
                                    The Atlantic has kept a focus on this topic and has since published a variety of perspectives
                                    on AI. Here is a selection.
This exhaustive and valuable report discusses the capabilities, applications, and
                                    technologies of AI, culminating in an examination of issues of integrity, fairness,
                                    misuse, and ethics of scale. It also addresses societal impacts and how these new
                                    models may be favorable to advance educational goals locally and worldwide.
In examining user experiences, this study finds “substantively worse user experience
                                    with GPT-3 education minority subpopulations. However, they achieved the largest knowledge
                                    gain, changing attitudes toward BLM and climate change” after interacting with this
                                    language model. They suggest an equity-based framework that considers education level,
                                    language skills, and attitudes of users to enhance equity in the design of AI systems.
AI-based tools are trained on the internet, and therefore, they will incorporate and
                                    reflect to us all the human biases of internet users, including racism, sexism, and
                                    other isms. As we engage with these tools, it is important to be mindful of this reality.
We have collected a selection of online conversations or opinion pieces about AI that
                              reflect a variety of perspectives. It is important to understand the context, as AI-based
                              tools in the arts present a unique set of issues compared to text-generating tools.
                              While by no means an exhaustive collection, we hope these videos will help educators
                              arrive at their personal stance on these tools. 
 
Contact Info
Kennesaw Campus1000 Chastain RoadKennesaw, GA 30144
Marietta Campus1100 South Marietta PkwyMarietta, GA 30060
Campus Maps
Phone470-KSU-INFO(470-578-4636)
kennesaw.edu/info
Media Resources
Resources For
Related Links
Follow KSU
470-KSU-INFO (470-578-4636)
© 2024 Kennesaw State University. All Rights Reserved.
