Lake Superior State University official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://catalog.lssu.edu/academic-policies/
Please familiarize yourself with the academic policies described in this catalog. They will help you obtain your educational objectives. Faculty advisors, staff, and administrative personnel will also help you negotiate your way through these policies — seek their advice whenever you have questions!
Lake Superior State University operates on a semester system. There are two regular 15-week semesters (fall and spring) which begin in August or September and end in April or May. The winter semester consists of classes offered in a three-week session or a four-week session. The summer semester consists of classes offered in two six-week sessions or one 12-week session. Please view the Important Dates for specific information for each semester.
In accord with federal regulations, state guidelines, and the Higher Learning Commission standards, LSSU defines a semester credit hour as follows:
A [semester] credit hour is an amount of work represented in intended learning outcomes and verified by evidence of student achievement that is an institutionally established equivalency that reasonably approximates not less than:
http://policy.hlcommission.org/Federal-Regulation/assignment-of-credits-program-length-and-tuition.html
LSSU defines “one hour of classroom or direct faculty instruction” as 50-60 standard minutes. Hour totals for a course include time used for evaluations, tests, and final examinations. The amount of credit awarded for any activity should be in keeping with the learning outcomes; evidence of student achievement must be documented.
Course learning outcomes are defined by the school and approved as part of a curriculum review process which includes recommendations from the University Curriculum Committee – a majority faculty body with representation from every school and the Administration. Outcomes are established independently of the modality of course delivery such that the credit hours for a course title will not change if the course is offered in face-to-face sessions with synchronous faculty-student interaction, in blended (hybrid) delivery, or in a fully online course.
Student-led tutoring, such as Supplemental Instruction or Structured Learning Activities, provides peer support to reinforce, expand and strengthen understanding of course content. Credit is not awarded for student-led tutoring, tutoring activities do not contribute to the calculation of course grades, and participation cannot be required.
The standard University semester is 15 weeks, including the final examination week. Courses scheduled for compressed schedules carry the same academic credit hours, meet the same student learning outcomes, and share the same expectations for an equivalent amount of work as defined by the semester credit hours, as a normally scheduled course.
All definitions and standards apply to all instructional modalities and instructional locations, including dual enrollment, Early-Middle College, Regional Centers, online, and blended (hybrid) courses.
(hours indicated represent the minimum requirements)
Courses that require observation, participation, client/pupil studies, etc. Specific programmatic accreditation requirements or applicable state regulations may set higher standards, but shall not be lower than the base of 1 credit hour awarded for each three (3) hours of clinical experience per week for a total of 45 hours in a 15-week semester.
Courses that are based on consultation and guidance from an instructor with meeting times established as TBA. One credit hour shall be awarded for each three (3) hours of student work per week for a total of 45 hours in a 15-week semester.
Courses where the instructor provides direct supervision of student creative or investigational work, whether individually or in small groups, in a controlled experiential learning environment requiring specialized equipment and/or facilities. Laboratory hours are determined by the amount of time the student would spend to conduct specific faculty-directed activities, including the development of written laboratory reports. Travel to and from distant experiential learning locations is not part of laboratory time. One credit hour shall be awarded for each three (3) hours of student work per week for a total of 45 hours in a 15-week semester.
Courses focused primarily on one-way communication (irrespective of the modality) from instructor to students, but may be combined with elements of in-class discussion or other individual or group learning activities. One credit hour shall be awarded for each one (1) hour of lecture combined with two (2) hours of out-of-class work per week for a total of 45 hours in a 15-week semester. The course syllabus should identify the out-of-class work required to meet the credit hour standard.
Courses which have both lecture and laboratory component have credit awarded as though each were considered separately. A course with a designation of SCIN 100 Science (1,2) 2 cr would require for each of the 15 weeks, one (1) hour of lecture instruction per week, two (2) hours of student work outside of class per week for the lecture, two (2) hours per week of supervised laboratory instruction, and one (1) hour per week of student work outside of lab – for a total of 45 hours for lecture and 45 hours for lab – 90 hours total.
An optional component of a course where the instructor provides guided study to reinforce and apply course content in problem-solving and other activities similar to the assignments in the course. One credit hour shall be awarded for each one (1) hour of Recitation combined with two (2) hours of out-of-class work per week for a total of 45 hours in a 15-week semester. The course syllabus should identify the out-of-class work required to meet the credit hour standard.
Courses where the title or course description defines the course as a practicum or internship, including cooperative education courses. Students receive credit for practical, degree-related experiences gained outside the classroom or laboratory. One credit hour shall be awarded for each three (3) hours of student work per week for a total of 45 hours in a 15-week semester. Additional departmental requirements may also be denoted in the course description.
The credits awarded for a particular educational experience will be based on the credit determination derived from the course type, irrespective of the modality used for course delivery, including delivery through online and blended types.
A traditional modality for courses where the instructor meets and interacts with students in the same physical space for 100% of the instructional time. Sometimes referred to as face-to-face, grounded instruction is always synchronous and may include lectures and/or structured whole class or group discussions and other activities. Courses delivered in a standard modality may incorporate the use of online learning management systems, like Moodle, to support student learning through activities such as the viewing of documents, participation in asynchronous discussions, and submitting assignments in fulfillment of the requirement for out-of-class student work.
Courses which are not delivered in a traditional modality must meet the same credit-hour requirement as standard courses, including evidence of active student engagement through structured synchronous and/or asynchronous interactions with students. Such interactions may include web-based delivery, online learning management system tools such as chats, discussion boards, written responses to student posts, feedback on student writing and other course assignments, etc. “Time spent logged into a learning management system does not constitute active faculty teaching or active student learning.”
A course modality where instructors interact with students in the same physical space for less than 100% of the instructional time with the remainder of the instructional time provided through forms of distance education. Sometimes referred to as hybrid courses, courses delivered in this modality must demonstrate active student engagement.
A course modality where instructors interact with students for 100% of the course through one or more forms of distance delivery, including web-based interaction and online learning management systems.
Students may request an official copy of their academic transcript be sent to schools, companies and/or other places or persons of their choice. Any financial or other obligations to the University must be cleared before a transcript is released. Student copy transcripts can be requested free of charge at the Registrar’s Office in the Fletcher Center. Students may also print an unofficial transcript online using Anchor Access.
When students apply for admission, they are asked to declare a major. The major declared will determine which major department the student is in and the academic advisor assigned. Students will meet with their advisors often to get help in class selection, degree progress and career advice. Students may change their major by processing a Major Change Form, available in Anchor Access and in the academic offices. Major Change Forms must be filed with the Registrar’s Office for each major change. If students are unsure of their major, they will be assigned to the Liberal Arts-Undecided major.
Registration for the next semester takes place near the end of the current semester.
Three weeks before registration, course schedules listing times, dates and locations will be available online and in Anchor Access. Students should review the class offerings, read the instructions for scheduling, and meet with their advisor to select courses for the next semester.
Students must sign up for classes for the semester in which they will be doing the actual work.
Please review all the registration information carefully as it has dates for registration according to class level, dates for tuition payments, and information regarding prerequisites, co-requisites and other course requirements.
It is the student’s responsibility to ensure that the classes taken count toward their degree program. Students may, however, be required to take developmental courses (course numbers beginning with “0”, such as MATH 088 Beginning Algebra), which will not count toward graduation.
Many courses require that students complete English, reading and/or mathematics, or other preliminary courses before registering for the course. If a student is currently enrolled in a course that is a prerequisite to a course needed the following semester, the student may register for the course on the presumption they will successfully complete the current course. If the student does not earn the prerequisite grade required for the next course, the student should consult their advisor and make a plan for an alternate course. Exceptions may be made only by the dean of the college or the instructor of the course.
Students may carry up to 20 credits per semester. A student may take more credits if they have a 3.00 GPA or higher and have written approval from the appropriate dean. Students on academic probation should not take more than 15 credits per semester. Students having been academically dismissed and allowed to return are limited to 13 credits per semester.
Students may add or drop courses online using Anchor Access through the sixth day of the fall or spring semester. If a student is attending winter or summer semester, the student may add or drop courses online through the fourth day of the semester.
If a student wishes to add a course that is full or without having the necessary prerequisites, the student must contact the instructor for that course to request permission. If the instructor approves the request, the instructor will complete an Instructor Override. The student must then go online and register for that course.
Courses dropped through the sixth day (the fourth day for the winter or summer semester) will not appear on the academic transcript.
Online registration ends on the sixth day of the semester (the fourth day for the winter or summer semester). Students wishing to add a course after this date must have the instructor’s permission. The student will need to complete a Schedule Adjustment Form, have the instructor sign it giving permission, and then process the form at the Registrar’s Office, located in the Fletcher Center for Student Services.
Students may drop a full-semester course during the first eleven weeks of the semester. For courses running less than a full semester (e.g. seven-week class), check online for the official drop dates — the time period for dropping will be approximately equal to one-half of the course instructional period. If a student drops a course, the student will receive an N grade on their academic transcript. N grades are not counted in the academic GPA.
Effective July 2012, state law allows qualifying 9th and 10th-grade students (in addition to 11th and 12th grade) to attend as dual-enrolled students in a postsecondary institution. To be eligible, students must be enrolled in at least one (1) high school class in a school district. Students must meet any course prerequisite requirements. Placement scores (SAT, ACT or ALEKS) are required for mathematics courses and courses with mathematics prerequisites. ENGL 110 First-Year Composition I and other courses without a prerequisite require confirmation from the high school counselor that the student is prepared for college-level work.
Students must be in Good Standing (cumulative GPA of 2.00 or higher) at LSSU to be eligible for continued enrollment. Students on probation are limited to course repeats, if available.
Eligible students are limited to no more than ten (10) courses overall if the school district covers the cost; this limit does not apply if the student is covering costs.
Attendance as a high school dual enrollee does not constitute admission to a degree program. LSSU encourages high school students to apply for admission at the start of their senior year.
This policy is in effect for all students starting at Lake Superior State University as of the Fall Semester 2011. Students may repeat a class in which they earn a grade other than “W” or “N” only twice without special permission.
To repeat a course more than twice, the student must attain the permission of the course instructor and the dean of the college offering that course. Permission is only granted under extenuating circumstances.
If a student fails a class required for their degree program, the student must repeat the class and receive a passing grade. If the failed class is no longer offered because of program changes and/or course deletions, the dean may approve a substitution or waiver recommended by the academic chair. The chair must provide reasons for the recommendation on the substitution/waiver form which is sent to the dean’s office for approval.  Upon approval, the dean will then send the form to the Registrar’s Office.
Students dropping all courses within the appropriate time frame for a fall or spring semester will be considered as withdrawn from Lake Superior State University. Students withdrawing may be eligible to receive a partial tuition refund following the refund schedule, and those with financial aid will be subject to Federal Title IV refund regulations. The last date of attendance in an academically related activity is required for all courses and may impact a student’s financial aid and refund status.
Students requesting a late withdrawal from one or all of their classes after the official drop date need to complete a Request for a Late Withdrawal and/or Tuition Appeal Form and have documented extenuating circumstances. The decision to grant the late withdrawal and/or tuition appeal will be made by the Late Withdrawal Committee. Appeals are reviewed in the order received and results may take from two to four weeks. The need for additional documents may delay this timeframe. All decisions by the committee are final and not subject to appeal.
Except for documented and exceptional circumstances, late withdrawals/tuition appeals will not be accepted more than one year after the end of the term for which the late withdrawal/tuition appeal was documented. All petitions filed after the one-year deadline must be granted an exception prior to consideration by the Late Withdrawal Committee.
Regular class attendance and active participation in classes are important elements in the learning process. Students are at the University primarily for the sake of intellectual growth and development. Attendance and participation provide appropriate opportunities for the evaluation of their progress.
Students are personally responsible for the satisfactory completion of the course work prescribed by their instructors. This means students are expected to attend classes regularly, and are responsible for the work assigned in class, the material covered in class, and for participation in class activities (including discussion and listening) designed by the instructor as part of the learning experience. However, mere physical attendance should not be a criterion for evaluation of their performance. Participation in an official University function is an excused absence when approved by the provost. Students will not be penalized for such participation. Students are responsible for work missed and must confer with their instructor on this matter.
Grade Point Average (GPA)
To calculate the GPA for a semester, divide the total quality points earned by the GPA hours. GPA hours include those earned or failed but not those classes taken for Credit/No credit or Pass/Fail. Cumulative GPA is calculated by dividing total quality points earned by the number of GPA hours carried in all semesters. If a student repeats a course, count only the credits carried and the points of the last grade earned. Only the grade of a student’s last attempt is calculated in the GPA.
A cumulative GPA of 2.00 for all credits is required for graduation. Further, a 2.00 cumulative grade point average for all credits in major, minor(s), and general education is required. Some programs require a higher GPA in the major and minor curriculum.
“I” (incomplete) grade
Students may request an “I” (incomplete) grade for a course if extenuating circumstances beyond their control prevent the completion of the course requirements by the end of the semester. Examples of extenuating circumstances may include health issues, death of a parent/spouse/child, or military service. Students and faculty must be aware that an “I” (incomplete) grade counts toward the student’s attempted credits for a semester and may thus affect Satisfactory Academic Progress. Students receiving financial aid should consult with the Financial Aid Office to discuss their specific situation when electing to drop a course or requesting an “I” (incomplete) grade.
Appropriate documentation is required. Students will need to be enrolled and have completed the majority of the work required for a course during the semester to be eligible to request an “I” (incomplete grade). An “I” (incomplete) grade may be issued in a course that by design can not be completed in one semester. An example of this type of course would be a study abroad course that requires the student to be out of the country until after the official semester end date. An “I” (incomplete) grade shall not be issued as a midterm grade for any course.
Students must work with the instructor to complete all missing requirements by a date specified by the instructor. If a date is not given, the student will have a maximum of two semesters (excluding summer and winter semesters) to complete the requirements for the course and to have the “I” (incomplete) grade changed to an appropriate final grade. Students should not re-enroll in any class in which they currently have an “I” (incomplete) grade.
If the “I” (incomplete) grade has not been changed to an appropriate final grade by the end of two semesters (excluding summer and winter semesters) the “I” (incomplete) grade will be changed to an “F” (failure) grade.
Students are not eligible to receive a degree or certificate with an “I” (incomplete) grade on their academic record.
N and W grades
These grades are given to those classes that students have officially dropped (N) or withdrawn late (W).
Credit/No Credit Courses
Students may enroll in some courses on a credit/no credit basis if they are in good academic standing. The following conditions exist:
Auditing Classes
Audits are designed for someone who wishes to take a particular course for its content, personal enrichment or academic exploration with no need for academic credit. The cost for an audited course is 50% of the standard tuition rate. Tuition is waived for Michigan residents who are 60 years of age or older, and verification of age must be provided to the Registrar at the time of enrollment. Individuals auditing a course will receive a final mark of AU (Audit) recorded on their LSSU academic transcript but will not receive university credit for the course.
An individual may register for courses on an audit basis provided space is available and all prerequisites have either been satisfied, or waived with the permission of the instructor. Individuals auditing a course shall be entitled to full classroom participation, and may complete all assignments and examinations for evaluation by the instructor, although these are not required for auditors. Not all courses can be taken for audit, and permission of the instructor (or Dean) is required prior to registration. Courses numbered below 100 may not be audited. Program fees, special course fees, parking permits, the purchase of textbooks, and required materials shall be the responsibility of the participant.
Audited courses do not count as part of an individual’s official class load for determining financial aid eligibility, veteran’s benefits or any other enrollment certification requirements. Students may change from an audit to credit status during the first week of classes, and only with the concurrence of the faculty member for the course. This change must be processed through the Registrar’s Office for grading purposes. Requests for course audits will be processed beginning two weeks after the start of registration to ensure degree-seeking students have adequate opportunity to enroll prior to course auditors.
Students wishing to audit a course will need to complete the Application for Auditing a Course form and turn it in to the Registrar’s Office.
Dean’s List
Full time students carrying at least 12 graded credits of college-level courses (100 level or above) in a semester with a grade point average (gpa) of 3.500 or higher, and not having any incomplete (“I”) grades, will earn Dean’s List honors, which acknowledge outstanding academic achievement.
If a grade is changed within 30 days from the end of the semester because of an instructor error in the recording of a grade, or because the student has completed the work required to resolve an Incomplete (“I”) grade, the student will be considered for Dean’s List honors.
Effective fall semester 2006, students earning Dean’s List honors will have this designation noted on their LSSU academic transcript.
LSSU recognizes that students may acquire expertise, skills and knowledge through individual study, employment, military training, community service or other experiences outside of the college classroom setting, which is known as prior learning. LSSU credit may be awarded for prior learning through successful completion of standardized examination programs, (e.g. CLEP, Advanced Placement, DANTES), credit recommendations of the American Council of Education, or successful completion and evaluation of departmental examinations. Credit may also be awarded upon successful completion of an individual Credit for Prior Learning Portfolio (CPL Portfolio) that documents the demonstration of learning outcomes for a specific course or set of courses.
All prior learning credits are considered transfer credits and are subject to the same policies as other transfer credits.
University residency requirements apply to all forms of prior learning (e.g. a minimum of 30 credits of the 124 credits required for an LSSU baccalaureate degree must be earned using LSSU coursework unless approved by the Provost). See the Degree Requirements section for the complete residency policy.
CPL Portfolio Program:
The CPL Portfolio program grants credit after a successful faculty evaluation, and Dean approval, of a portfolio that demonstrates mastery of the learning outcomes for a specific course or set of courses.  Unlike typical course articulations, no list of equivalencies exists since every person’s prior learning experience can vary significantly. It is only through the CPL Portfolio review process that equivalencies are identified and credit awarded. Not all Lake Superior State University courses are eligible for CPL Portfolio review; for example those in nursing and education that have specific accreditation and licensure requirements. A typical portfolio will capture prior learning experiences from work experience (based on past employment), past training (such as classes, workshops, seminars, etc.), and life experiences (long-term activities that have resulted in college-level learning).
If a student is interested in pursuing credit for prior learning through a CPL Portfolio, the student should contact the Dean of the college responsible for the course content to review the portfolio process.
CPL Portfolio Criteria:
In order to be considered for CPL Portfolio credit review, the applicant must have a high school diploma, or equivalent. Furthermore:
CPL Portfolio Guidelines:
Lake Superior State University has established procedures for students to appeal their final course grade. Situations where this appeal is applicable may include grade miscalculations, inconsistent application of grading policies and/or requirements, or actions that prevented the meeting of course learning outcomes. A student who has concerns regarding a final course grade may take the following steps:
General Information
A University Working Day (UWD) refers to those days when the university is in normal operation, and university offices are open for business.
“Receipt” refers to the day upon which the person designated officially initials the appropriate document(s).
If the student does not meet the appeal timelines stated above, the appeal is considered closed and no further action is required. If university personnel do not meet the appeal timelines stated above, the student can advance the appeal to the next step. The Provost may grant an extension in time at any step due to extenuating circumstances; such extensions will be documented on the Grade Appeal Record of Action. The Provost may establish appropriate and reasonable extensions of time in cases where the student is not actively enrolled in the current semester, or where the course instructor is not assigned teaching duties for the current semester.
For Undergraduate Coursework
(Effective Fall 2021)
A cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 2.00 for all credits carried at Lake Superior State University and a cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 2.00 for all courses required in the major, minor and general education is necessary for graduation (effective Fall 2007).
You will be placed on academic probation if your cumulative grade point average (GPA) falls below 2.00. Academic Probation limits you to 15 credits. You must contact your advisor to adjust your schedule before classes start for the next semester.
If your cumulative grade point average (GPA) remains below a 2.00 for the next semester, you will be continued on probation.
You will be allowed to continue on probation if you have at least a 2.00 semester grade point average (GPA) in courses carried for that semester. If you are on academic probation for two consecutive semesters, and both your semester grade point average (GPA) and your cumulative grade point average (GPA) are below a 2.00, you will be dismissed for academic deficiencies. Classes below the 100-level and classes with grades of CR/NC or P/U are not counted in the GPA Hours. Your classes for the next semester(s) will be deleted.
After a first or second dismissal you may choose one of the following options:
If you continue after a dismissal, you will be limited to 13 credits. You will be allowed to continue “on probation” if you have at least a 2.00 semester grade point average (GPA) in courses carried for that semester. You will be dismissed again after any semester in which your semester grade point average (GPA) and your cumulative grade point average (GPA) are below a 2.00.
If you are dismissed a third time, you will not be reinstated without the permission of the Provost. Three semesters must elapse from the time of dismissal before you may petition for readmission.
The Scholastic Standards Committee may dismiss you from the university for demonstrated academic dishonesty.
For Graduate Level Coursework
(Effective Summer 2011)
A cumulative grade point average of 3.00 for all graduate credits carried at Lake Superior State University and a minimum grade of B for each course, including courses transferred into the program, are required for graduation.
You will be on academic probation if your cumulative grade point average falls below 3.00. Academic Probation limits you to six (6) credits. You must contact your advisor to adjust your schedule before classes start for the next semester.
If you are on probation for more than two consecutive semesters, you will be academically dismissed. Your classes for the next semester will be deleted.
After a first or second dismissal you may choose one of the following options:
If you continue after a dismissal, you will be dismissed again after any semester in which your cumulative grade point falls below a 3.00. You will be allowed to continue on probation if you have a 3.00 semester grade point average (GPA) in courses carried for that semester.
If you are dismissed a third time, you will not be reinstated without the permission of the Provost. Three semesters must elapse from the time of dismissal before you may petition the Provost for readmission.
The Scholastic Standards Committee may dismiss you from the university for demonstrated academic dishonesty.
Academic integrity is a key component of the core values of Lake Superior State University. All members of the University community are expected to be honorable and ethical and observe standards of conduct appropriate to a community of scholars. The University community will not tolerate academic dishonesty as such behavior will cause harm to the reputation of students, faculty, and graduates of the institution. Such dishonorable behavior includes, but is not limited to, cheating, fabrication, plagiarism, and obtaining an unfair advantage. These terms are defined below:
Cheating: Using or attempting to use unauthorized materials or information during an exam or assignment of any kind. Using notes, texts, help from individuals, generative artificial intelligence (AI) tools, copying information from another individual’s exam, or any other means constitutes cheating unless such resources are explicitly allowed by the instructor.
Fabrication: Unauthorized falsification, invention, falsification of information, citations, or bibliographic references in any academic work. It also includes falsifying any academic record or other University document. Issues of academic integrity are not limited only to submitted written assignments but also include dishonest behavior that impacts planned learning opportunities for self or others. Examples include but are not limited to: stated falsehoods with the intent/or have the result of impacting course schedules, group activities, or assignment design, actions of deception that are intended/or have the result of altering assignments, learning objectives, testing, and/or grading criteria.
Plagiarism: Representing someone else’s, including AI-generated, work as one’s own. Failing to cite references or presenting material, verbatim or paraphrased that is not acknowledged and cited also constitutes plagiarism.
Obtaining an Unfair Advantage: Stealing, reproducing, circulating, or otherwise gaining any advantage with examination materials before, during, or after examination by the instructor. This may include but is not limited to: submitting responses after the examination is complete, or not submitting the examination according to instructor policy. Also prohibited are stealing, destroying, defacing, or concealing academic materials with the purpose of depriving others of their use.
Possible Academic Sanctions for Offenses
It is in the best interest of the University community to sanction any individual who chooses not to accept the principles of academic honesty by engaging in the above acts. Appropriate sanctions may include but are not limited to: verbal and/or written warning, revision and/or completion of additional work, change or reduction of grade, course failure, and/or dismissal from academic program and/or the University. In the case of theft, damage, or destruction of University property, or the property of others, there may be additional penalties which may include, but are not limited to: issuance of fines, removal from the campus, dismissal from the University, and/or criminal prosecution.
Faculty/Staff and University Responsibilities
A faculty/staff member who observes a violation or has a violation reported to them in one or more of the above areas shall complete the Academic Integrity Incident Report. The faculty/staff member will then meet with the student to address the violation and review the report. If requested by the observer, the Dean may assign a designee to meet with the student. The faculty/staff member will then file the report with the Academic Advisor, Dean and the Provost’s Office. This report will be kept in the Provost’s Office for a period of five years after the student  graduates or leaves the university. Academic Departments or Schools may have additional policies and procedures that could provide further recommendations to the Provost’s Office when instances of academic dishonesty are suspected.
The Provost’s Office will keep a record of all Academic Integrity reports. On behalf of the faculty member, Academic Deans may access these records for assessment of patterns in past academic integrity incidents. In cases of egregious or repeated violations, the Dean may recommend to the Provost that dismissal from the University is warranted.      
Student Responsibilities
Unless the faculty member has explicitly specified otherwise, students are to assume that exams are individual, closed book, and without the use of notes or similar reference materials. Unless specifically allowed by the faculty member, papers, projects, and similar products are expected to be the original individual work of the student. If notes, texts, other reference materials, group work, AI-generated text and images, or similar resources are to be allowed, the faculty member will specify what is permitted for a particular assignment or exam.
It is the student’s responsibility to start the appeal process if they wish to challenge an academic integrity decision.
Student Appeal
For a single course Academic Integrity incident, the student will follow the procedure outlined in the Academic Integrity Appeal Process Record of Action.
Should the student desire to appeal a University dismissal related to egregious or repeated Academic Integrity incidents, the same process outlined in the Academic Integrity Appeal Process Record of Action would be followed beginning at Step 5 with the Student Written Request to Dean.
Purpose: LSSU recognizes that sometimes, despite a student’s best efforts, life circumstances interrupt academic progress, impacting academic standing and GPA in ways that make returning and being successful difficult. The Undergraduate Academic Forgiveness Policy provides returning students with a chance to establish an academic standing that reflects their increased maturity and commitment to successful degree completion.
Through the Academic Forgiveness process, a student who has been away from Lake Superior State University for a period of at least three years, is given a one-time opportunity to remove prior course work from specific academic semesters from grade point computation.
Academic Forgiveness must be requested the first semester of a student’s return. An academic plan must be completed with the faculty advisor. In addition, the student will be required to complete no less than 12 additional credits at LSSU with a minimum GPA of 2.000 or higher in order to have academic forgiveness applied to their transcript.
Academic Forgiveness is not available to students who have previously been awarded an LSSU associate, or bachelor’s degree. Students with an earned certificate may not forgive any coursework that was used to earn the certificate.
Students may only request academic forgiveness once, and if academic forgiveness is approved it is irrevocable. The student’s academic standing will be set to “Good Academic Standing”.
All courses and grades that fall within the academic forgiveness semesters will remain on the student’s transcript with the notation “Academic Forgiveness Granted”. All grades will be annotated with an ‘R’ indicating forgiveness, (for example, RA, RB, RC, RD, RF). Grades thus annotated will be excluded from the university grade point average calculation. Forgiven course grades of RC- or higher will count in Earned credits and can be used to fulfill LSSU requirements.
Academic Forgiveness does not relate to or affect Financial Aid eligibility. A student’s cumulative completion rate of attempted credits is not reduced by the approval of Academic Forgiveness. Academic Forgiveness is a policy of Lake Superior State University and may not be recognized by outside institutions or agencies (e.g. Michigan Dept of Education, other universities and colleges).
Diversity, inclusion, and belonging constitute a pillar in Lake Superior State University’s strategic plan and represent core values and key outcomes for student success. This policy contributes to building a sense of belonging by recognizing the diversity of our students and employees. It provides a process through which one’s chosen name, preferred pronouns, and gender identity can be reflected in University records.
A chosen name is the first name by which one prefers to be addressed and may be different from a legal or given first name. The University invites all students and employees to provide their chosen name to be used in place of their legal or given first name for certain University functions and records. Submitting your chosen name will not remove or alter your legal name on record.
Applicants indicating a chosen name on their application for admission will automatically have their chosen first name entered in the University student information system. Current or former University students and employees may add a chosen name by editing their information in Anchor Access.
A chosen name may not be used when the legal name is required by policies applicable to the University, the State of Michigan or in accordance with local, state, or federal laws and regulations.
Examples of where chosen name is used:
Examples of where the legal name is used:
For questions about this policy, please contact the Registrar’s Office at registrar@lssu.edu
Lake Superior State University defines student name as directory information. As such, both legal and chosen first names may be disclosed without prior consent. A student who does not want names disclosed must complete a Directory Restriction Request and submit it to the Registrar’s Office. The restriction is subject to certain exceptions, including those University officials with a legitimate educational interest. Also note that withholding directory information may prevent the University from verifying a student’s status (e.g., for the purposes of insurance verifications or employment), certifying a degree, or publishing a student’s name in the commencement program without prior written consent.
Name Changes
There are two types of name changes addressed below: 1) Legal Name and 2) Chosen Name. The method and burden of proof is different for each. Please read the guidelines below before requesting a name change. Students with questions about changing their legal name should contact the Registrar’s Office at registrar@lssu.edu. For questions about changing your chosen name, please contact the Dean of Student Affairs at deanofstudentaffairs@lssu.edu. Employees with questions about either type of name change should contact the Human Resources Office at humanresources@lssu.edu.
Legal Name
The Registrar’s Office maintains students’ official legal name for Lake Superior State University and for relevant governmental agencies. Human Resources maintains similar records for employees. To change your legal name, complete the Request for a Name Change form on the Registrar’s Website. Reasons for changing your legal name may be:
The Registrar’s Office and/or Human Resources will accept the following forms of documentation to verify your new legal name status.
Your first, middle, and last names may be changed only with the documentation listed above.
Please note the following:
Chosen Name
Your chosen name is the first name by which you prefer to be called. If you do not specify a chosen name, your legal name will be your default chosen name. You can only have one chosen name. Common reasons for having a chosen name that differs from a legal name include primary use of a shortened name, nickname, middle name, or a name that matches your gender identity.
To change your Chosen Name in the University system, please follow these steps.
To change your Chosen Name in Gmail™, please follow these steps.
To change your Chosen Name in Zoom™, please follow these steps.
Please note each of the following:
Personal Pronouns
Personal pronouns will be used across university systems where available. Students and employees are welcome to facilitate the use of chosen name and personal pronouns.
To change your personal pronouns in the University system, please follow these steps.
Gender Identification
An individual’s gender identification can differ from the sex assigned at birth. Students and employees can change their gender identification in Anchor Access. The steps are the same as those listed under “Chosen Name” above.
To change your gender identification in the University system, please follow these steps.
The Michigan Transfer Agreement (MTA) is a partnership between Michigan’s colleges and universities that allows students to complete core college courses at one institution and transfer those credits to other partner institutions to be applied to the core requirements. To be eligible to receive the “MTA-Satisfied” designation on the LSSU academic transcript, students must:
Coursework in areas of prior learning are not applicable to the MTA at this time (e.g. International Baccalaureate-IB, College-Level Examination Program-CLEP, DANTES Subject Standardized Test- DSST, etc.).
Students requesting and earning this designation, will have it applied to their academic transcript at the completion of the academic semester.
Section 438 of the General Education Provisions Act, as amended, sets forth the requirements to be met by an educational institution to protect the privacy of students. This act is called the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act and shall be referred to hereafter as the Act. The Act generally governs access to student educational records and the release of such records. The Act also requires that institutions of higher education must provide students access to official records directly related to the student and an opportunity for a hearing to challenge such records on the grounds that they are inaccurate, misleading or inappropriate. Educational institutions must also obtain written consent before releasing personally identifiable data about students from records to other than a specified list of exceptions. In addition, students must be notified of these rights. In accordance with provisions of the Act and the regulations enacted by the U.S. Department of Education, Lake Superior State University has adopted the following policies and procedures:
Section 1. General Policy on Access and Disclosure
Lake Superior State University shall not as a matter of policy or practice:
Section 2. Notification to Students
Under the provisions of the Act, the University must annually notify students of their rights and the institution policies pertaining to the Act. In addition, notice must be given to the location where the policy can be obtained as well as to inform the students of the right to file complaints with the U.S. Department of Education concerning alleged failures by the University to comply with the Act. In accordance with these requirements the annual notice regarding students’ rights, the location of copies of the University’s policies setting forth these rights, as well as the right to file complaints with the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act Office, shall be published in the University Catalog. The annual letter to students will notify students of directory information. The registrar is the hearing officer for the Act and is responsible for implementing the notification requirements and the distribution of copies of the policies and procedures.
Section 3. Education Records Defined
“Education records” means those records which:
The term does not include:
Section 4. Rights to Inspect and Review Education Records
A student who is enrolled at or has attended Lake Superior State University has the right to inspect and review his/her educational records subject to the limitations set forth in Section 3 and 13. The educational record recorded by the student will be provided within a reasonable period of time defined by availability of staff time and the records. Records will be provided no more than 45 days after the request is made.
The right to review educational records includes the right to a response from Lake Superior State University to reasonable requests for explanation and interpretations of the subject record.
Section 5. Procedures for Inspection and Review of Records
A written request for the inspection is required for review of educational records or release of records, where permitted, to third parties. See Section 10A for release of records to third parties. The request must be submitted to the appropriate officer. See Section 7 for list of officials maintaining educational records.
The written request under this section must contain:
Section 6. Copies of Records: Fees for Copies
Copies of educational records will be provided under the Act under the following conditions:
Section 7. Listing of Location of Education Records
The following is a list of the records considered educational in nature under the Act and their locations listed by Office, Type of Record, Responsible Official, and Location.
Note: All academic records are partial records with the exception of the Registrar’s Office as noted above.
Section 8. Disclosure of Restricted Information to University Officials
Personally identifiable information from the education records of a student may be disclosed without the prior consent of the student to University officials who have a legitimate educational interest in the information. The University officials must demonstrate a need to obtain the information consistent with their official functions and the request must be consistent with normal professional practices and legal requirements.
The disclosure of personally identifiable student information under the above conditions will not be disclosed to any other party without the prior written consent of the student, except that such information may be used by the appropriate officials or agents of the University for the purpose for which the disclosure was made.
Section 9. University Officials
For the purpose of these procedures and policies, University officials are those individuals who have demonstrated a need for access to student records consistent with official University responsibilities and professional practices.
University officials include: Members of the faculty, professional, executive and administrative staff, including the Public Safety Department, academic assistants, student employees who manage student education record information, students properly appointed as members of a hearing panel or screening committee, representatives of the State Auditor General when performing their legally required duties, legal, insurance, or collection representatives of the University when performing their university-related duties requiring student record information concerning a claim or legal matter.
Section 10. Disclosure of Personally Identifiable Information
A. Prior Consent for Disclosure Required
The University shall obtain the written consent of the student before disclosing personally identifiable information from their education records to third parties other than directory information. Consent is not required where the disclosure is to the student.
If the University consents to the release of personally identifiable student information to third parties under this section (10A) at the written request of the student, the University will also provide the student with a copy.
The written consent required under this section (10A) must be signed and dated by the student and shall include:
B. Prior Consent for Disclosure Not Required
The University may transfer or disclose the educational records of a student, without prior written consent, on request to the officials of another educational institution in which the student is enrolled or intends to enroll.
The University, upon request, will provide the student with a copy of the transferred educational records.
Information from the educational records of a student may be disclosed, without prior written consent, if the disclosure is:
Section 11. Directory Information
Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act permits the disclosure of certain personally identifiable information from the educational record of a student if that information is designated as directory information as defined by the Act.
In order to release such information the University is required to provide public notice of the following:
In compliance with these provisions, the University will announce its intention to release directory information each fall in the annual letter. Written requests to prohibit or restrict the use of directory information should be addressed by the last day of the add/drop period to the Registrar’s Office. The University considers the following as directory information: name, address, telephone number, place of birth, e-mail address, enrollment status (e.g., undergraduate or graduate, full time or part time) major field of study, dates of attendance, degrees, honors and awards received, including scholarships, most recent previous educational agency or institution attended by student, participation in officially recognized activities and sports, and height and weight of members of the athletic teams. In the event that this list is altered or expanded, these provisions will be amended in accordance with the Act.
Section 12. Record of Disclosures Required to be Maintained
Lake Superior State University shall for each request and disclosure of personally identifiable information from a student’s education records maintain a register within that file of the education records which indicates:
A record is not required for disclosures to a student, disclosures pursuant to the student’s written consent when consent is specific to the party or parties, disclosures to University officials as set forth in Section 9, or disclosures of directory information as provided in Section 11.
The record of disclosures may be inspected by: the student, University officials and assistants responsible for the custody of the records, and university officials authorized in Section 9 and persons outside the University as authorized in Section 10 for the purpose of auditing the record keeping procedures of the institution.
Section 13. Limitation on the Right to Inspect and Review Records
The University is not required to permit a student to inspect or review the following records:
If the educational record of a student contains information on more than one student, the requesting student may review or inspect or be informed of only the specified information which pertains to the student making the inquiry.
Section 14. Request to Amend Educational Records
A student who believes information in the student’s educational records is inaccurate, misleading or violates the privacy or other rights of the student may request the University amend such records. The procedures regarding amendment to a student record are:
Section 15. Right to a Hearing
The Act provides an opportunity for a hearing to challenge the content of a student’s educational record to insure that the record does not contain inaccurate or misleading information or violates the privacy or other rights of the student. This procedure can not be used to challenge grades. The following procedure defines the process after the decision of denial.
Procedure of Hearing
A student desiring a hearing on a denial to amend the record by the official establishing such records must:
The hearing officer will, within seven calendar days of receipt of the request for hearing, notify the student of the hearing date, time and location. At least 72 hours notice prior to the hearing will be provided to involved parties.
A full and fair opportunity is available to present evidence relevant to the question of whether the record in question is inaccurate, misleading or in violation of the privacy or other rights of the student. The student may be assisted or represented by any individual, including an attorney, at their own expense. The hearing officer will render a decision on the appeal within seven calendar days of hearing’s conclusion. The decision shall be in writing and based solely upon the evidence presented at the hearing. The written decision to the student shall include a summary of the evidence and reasons for the decision.
If, as a result of the hearing, the hearing officer rules the information is inaccurate, misleading or in violation of any of the student’s rights, the record in question will be amended within seven calendar days of the decision.
If, as a result of the hearing, the hearing officer determines that the record should not be amended, the student shall be informed of the right to place in the education record a statement commenting upon the information and setting forth the reasons for disagreeing with the University’s decision.
Any explanation placed in the record of the student under this provision shall:
Section 16. Waivers
A student may waive any right under the Act. The waiver shall not be valid unless it is in writing and signed by the student. The University may not require that a student waive any right under the Act. This requirement does not preclude the University from requesting such a waiver. An applicant for admission or a student in attendance may waive the right to inspect and review confidential letters and statements of recommendation. The waiver applies to letters or statements only if it is in writing and designated by the student and if:
A waiver may be revoked, but that action must be in writing and filed with the office in possession of the waiver.
Students have the right to file a complaint with the U.S. Department of Education concerning alleged failures by Lake Superior State University to comply with the requirements of FERPA. The name and the address of the office that administers FERPA is:
Family Policy Compliance Office
U.S. Department of Education
400 Maryland Avenue, SW
Washington, DC 20202-5901
Additional Information
Lake Superior State University complies with Section 113 of the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Technical Education Act and Section 122 of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998. LSSU uses the student’s SSN in order to compile required WIA and Perkins Act reports.
© 2023-2024
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download PDF of this page
The PDF will include all information unique to this page.
2023-2024 LSSU Catalog
A PDF of the entire 2023-2024 catalog.
