Letourneau University official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://lib-guides.letu.edu/c.php?g=536766&p=3673868


Click here to check the full schedule:    Library Complete Schedule
Margaret Estes Library Hours 
 
Self-plagiarism is possible and it's just as serious.
Self-plagiarism, or "double-dipping," is deception and goes against the core principles of ethical writing. Papers are assigned for you to demonstrate what you have learned in a particular class. If you reuse a paper you wrote for a previous class, you are not demonstrating new learning.
Examples of self-plagiarism:
Policy
Academic dishonesty is a serious breach of trust within the LeTourneau University community because it violates the regard for truth that is essential to genuine learning and Christian consistency. From a broader perspective, it hurts both offending students and their peers who complete their work with integrity. Therefore, the LeTourneau University community will not tolerate academic dishonesty and encourages a student who experiences particular difficulties in a course to discuss the problem with the instructor rather than succumb to the pressure to commit academic dishonesty.

Academic dishonesty is not qualitatively different from other types of dishonesty. It consists of misrepresentation in an attempt to deceive. In an academic setting, this dishonesty may take various forms including, but not limited to, the following:
Cases of academic dishonesty are typically first handled by the instructor teaching the course in which the violation occurs. If an instructor finds a student guilty of violating the Academic Integrity Policy, the possible sanctions he or she may impose include but are not limited to the following:

The above are examples of typical sanctions, but the faculty member is free to determine an appropriate course penalty given the severity of the specific violation. This is left to the discretion of the instructor, but he or she may elect to consult a supervisor or dean, and/or the Associate Provost for Student Success.
