Lipscomb University official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://www.lipscomb.edu/academics/programs/data-analytics-certificate
In every industry, data drives sound decisions. Let us help you begin your career as a data scientist. With a median income significantly above the national average and ranked among the best jobs in America for job satisfaction, data science is a field that is expected to grow by 35% over the next decade. The Data Analytics certificate will help you upskill or pivot to this growing industry.
Earn your Data Analytics certificate as a standalone certificate or complete it alongside your Professional MBA. Students who complete the Data Analytics certificate in addition to the Professional MBA program will earn a STEM MBA.
Through this program you will:
 
Yes! The Data Analytics certificate is a part-time program.
Yes! Our Professional MBA (PMBA) offers the opportunity to add a Data Analytics certificate as part of the curriculum. Students who complete the Data Analytics certificate in addition to the Professional MBA program will earn a STEM MBA.
Professional MBA
This program addresses a growing demand for analytical expertise in business to help professionals excel and deliver results for their companies. Our curriculum will equip you with the hands-on experience necessary for this career path including tools and technology like Python and SQL. You'll continually be supported by well-versed faculty who take learning beyond the classroom walls into real-world applications.
The Data Analytics Certificate requires 18 hours for graduation. Completion time varies from 1-2 years.
If students decide to apply to the MBA program and are accepted, 12 hours of the Data Analytics
Certificate can be transferred into the MBA program.
The recommended course sequence is BU6143, BU6343, BU6363, BU6373, BU6383, and BU6393.
Capstone Project within final course of certificate (BU6393 Practical Applications in Data Analytics)
NOTE: Students can pursue a combined MBA and Data Analytics Certificate, which will be STEM-designated. The requirements include completing the 27 hours of core MBA courses (including BU6143 Business Intelligence) plus an additional 15 hours of coursework from the Data Analytics certificate.
For students completing the certificate only tuition is $700 per credit hours ($12,600 for certificate). If the student is taking the Data Analytics courses as part of Lipscomb's MBA program tuition for the first 12 hours is the standard MBA tuition per hour; the remaining 6 hours are discounted to $700 per credit hour.
Contact Information
Graduate and Adult Admissions, Admin
Colleen Curlee
    Assistant Director Graduate Enrollment
    (615) 966-5193
Colleen.Curlee@lipscomb.edu

Graduate and Adult Admissions, Admin
Karen Risley
    Senior Director of Graduate Enrollment
    (615) 966-5145
karen.risley@lipscomb.edu

This certificate meets in person every other week with online components between class sessions. The hybrid format blends traditional and online learning to give you the flexibility you need to balance school, work and life.

Turn your specialized knowledge of data into a competitive advantage that sets you apart in the market. Learn from industry professionals and advance your business career with continued education. 
The hands-on learning in this program will bring real-world scenarios to the classroom and help you develop the skills required to deliver viable, data-driven solutions. Our deeply connected faculty offer a myriad of ways for you to form relationships with leaders in your chosen industry.

Assistant Dean, School of Data Analytics & Technology
Jacob Arthur is an Assistant Professor of Information Security & Analytics in the College of Business, where he leads the efforts to fuse business, data, and technology. His background includes...
Adjunct Faculty

Market Research Analysts monitor and collect data on competitors and the market for a business. They use strong communication and analytical skills to develop metrics to assess product/service potential.
Logisticians take on a leadership role for a business to oversea a variety of activities from purchasing orders to inventory and warehousing. Often, this involved managing a software or database system.
Financial Analysts review and assess the financial dealings of a business to make sure everything is efficient and optimized. Usually, they manage investment portfolios and monitor the business's value.
Those involved in new venture creation actively analyze the market to fill needs either through creating a new business, product or service. They develop solutions by identifying what is lacking. 

Professional MBA


Health Care Informatics - Online M.S. & Certificate

Lipscomb University
One University Park Drive
Nashville, TN 37204
800.333.4358
Locations
Strategic Vision
Make a Gift

© 2024 Lipscomb University
