Michigan Technological University official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://www.mtu.edu/research/integrity/artificial-intelligence-tools/
The emergence of ChatGPT and other large language model artificial intelligence tools
                           since late 2022 has led to rapid developments utilizing these tools in many research
                           disciplines. This is likely to continue to evolve rapidly over the coming years. 
                           This policy is written to provide at least a minimum level of guidance to users of
                           these tools in research activities.
Research sponsors of all types are evolving in their approach to the use of generative
                           AI tools in proposal, review, or report preparation. Publishers are also adjusting
                           their policies to reflect their approach to the use of generative AI tools in publication
                           preparation or review. Whenever generative AI tools are used, the author is always
                           responsible for the final content. It is the University’s policy for Michigan Tech
                           faculty, staff, and students to comply with funding sponsor or publisher requirements
                           for the use of generative AI tools in funding applications or reporting of research
                           results.
All of these commercially available tools, whether free or for purchase, are accompanied
                           by a licensing agreement.  Most of these agreements do not protect data privacy or
                           security. In fact, most explicitly grant the tool provider the explicit right to capture
                           and utilize any information entered into the tool, meaning that users have no proprietary
                           interest either in their input into the tool or in the content generated by the tool.
                           The University does not have any license with any provider of large language model
                              generative AI tools that provides protection of data privacy and security.
