Mount Vernon College official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://blogs.gwu.edu/honorsprogram/category/events/
University Honors Program Blog
Intellectual Omnivores Unite
On October 19th at the Mount Vernon Quad, sugar and pizza were consumed, and a good time was had!
Students made s’mores and enjoyed the fellowship of friends, make sure you come out to the next UHP event, where good times never end!
  
Students from NC State University’s Honors Program visited D.C. during their Fall Break, from October 6th-9th. During their visit, they met up with students from our Honors Program to make connections, explore the city, and see GW’s campus!
On Sunday, students from both programs met in the UHP Townhouse and then walked over to the Renwick Museum to explore the galleries. The next day, the NCSU students returned to campus to meet more of our students and hear from Katie Hendrickson, the Deputy Chief of Staff at the Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR). Students learned about the function of the USTR, working for the federal government, and were given occupational and networking advice, all while enjoying Chipotle!
Thank you to our friends over in the NCSU Honors Program – we hope to see you in D.C. again soon!

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




October 2nd through 6th is National Voter Education Week! GW Votes will be tabling, sharing resources, and hosting interactive activities with the GW community on getting registered, navigating mail ballots, creating a vote plan, understanding what’s on the ballot, and more!
Join us at Anniversary Park on Thursday October 5th, from 10am-3pm, or on the Mount Vernon Campus Quad on Friday October 6th, from 12:30-3:30pm!
Major issues don’t take years off. Vote in your 2023 state and local elections to make your voice heard! Statewide elections are occurring in Virginia, New Jersey, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Pennsylvania this November. Ohio, Texas, and Maine will also have statewide referendums on the ballot!
Get #VoteReady this week with GW Votes while enjoying free food and giveaways!
We hope to see you there, and most importantly, we hope you join us in celebrating by registering or requesting your ballot with TurboVote!
Contact gwvotes@gwu.edu with any voter questions.
Event Details: This event will take place on Friday, October 6 from 12 pm until 1 pm in the UHP Townhouse. This event requires an RSVP so please fill out this form to let us know you are coming!
Title: AI Does My Homework. What’s the Problem?
Description: With suitable prompting, Generative Artificial Intelligence (GAI) tools such as Bard and ChatGPT can produce content that receives passing grades – even good grades – in some high school and college courses.  GAI tools raise many important questions, some of which we should be asking anyway.
Is it unethical for you to use GAI tools in ways your instructor or GW explicitly forbids?  Is it unfair to other students who choose to refrain from such prohibited uses?  Do prohibited uses somehow wrong your instructor or GW?  Do they make you complicit in questionable practices or systems?  How likely is it that you’ll be caught and sanctioned?  Assuming you get away with it, is it in your long-term self-interest to keep doing it?
These questions lead to deeper ones.  How will your college experience figure in your life after graduation?  What purposes does college serve?  Should college as we know it continue to exist?  What’s your responsibility to future generations?
Do you have any ideas or suggestions about the Honors Program that you’d like us to hear? Do you have any questions? Whether you’re a first-year student or nearing graduation, come join the UHP Director, Professor Kung, for a “Breakfast with the Director” event on Friday, September 22nd at 11 am in the Foggy Bottom townhouse Club Room. Please RSVP with the form below:
Loading…
Join us Friday, March 10th, from 12-1PM in the townhouse Club Room with Professor Hill to discuss: Leading the Virtual Workforce. RSVP Here
Title: Leading the Virtual Workforce
Description:
Over the last few decades, there has been a significant growth in virtual/remote work (i.e., interactions between employees that are not in person and occur using technology-mediated communication), which was further accelerated by the COVID-19 pandemic. Numerous studies show that the shift toward virtual/remote work is one of the most significant trends for the future. My research primarily focuses on how leaders can promote positive work outcomes for their employees and teams in virtual settings. This includes pressing issues for leaders such as facilitating effective teamwork, fostering employee well-being, and ensuring equal career outcomes for all employees regardless of their work arrangement. My research shows that virtual work can be a double-edged sword; thus, as organizations accelerate their implementation of virtual work, leaders must understand how to leverage its benefits while mitigating its negative effects.





The Policy Studies Organization is hosting a summit on science and technology! Below is more information pulled from their website:
“The purpose of the Dupont Summit is to promote interdisciplinary conversation about pressing issues related to the politics and policy of science, technology and the environment. The conference mirrors the interest of the PSO and its partners in promoting conversation about current policy concerns. The conference brings together academics, government, business and social leaders from a variety of backgrounds.
Thanks to the kindness of our sponsors, the registration fee is waved, but registration is still important so that seating and other arrangements (such as catering) can be confirmed. For more information, please contact Executive Director of the Policy Studies Organization Daniel Gutierrez at dgutierrezs@ipsonet.org.”
Breakfast, lunch, and refreshments will be available throughout the day at no cost.
Date: Friday, February 17th
Place: Online, and at the Historic Quaker Meetinghouse, 2111 Florida Ave. NW, Washington DC
Program and RSVP: https://ipsonet.org/conferences/the-dupont-summit/

The UHP staff had a wonderful time hosting the end of semester Student-Faculty Dinner! We enjoyed wonderful buffet of Chinese food at Magic Gourd Restaurant!
                
 
Hi UHPers!  Are you interested in attending The Julian Clement Chase Prize Award Ceremony?  It will be held in-person this year on Thursday, October 13, from 4-6pm in the GWU Textile Museum (701 21st Street NW). We especially encourage students who are working on or anticipating working on capstone projects to attend, as the Prize is a great opportunity for undergraduate students to be recognized for their work, and the Ceremony is a great opportunity to see what is possible!
The ceremony and reception honor exceptional research writing about the District of Columbia.  Tom Sherwood, the keynote speaker, is a Resident Analyst for The Politics Hour with Kojo Nnamdi and a Contributing Writer for Washington City Paper.
This year’s Julian Clement Chase Prize winner is Izy Carney, ““Dirty Work” Pay: Environmental Racism and the 1970 Washington, D.C. Sanitation Strike.”
Honorable Mention goes to Wyatt Kirschner “45 Hardcore, Ass Bustin’ Radicals” and Three Infiltrators: Students for a Democratic Society at George Washington University and the FBI’s Counterintelligence Efforts Against Them.”
Advanced registration is not required to attend in person, but RSVPs are appreciated.  To receive the Zoom link to join virtually, please RSVP by October 9.   If you have any questions about the award, please contact Phyllis Ryder.
GW is committed to digital accessibility. If you experience a barrier that affects your ability to access content on this page, let us know via the Accessibility Feedback Form.
            
This site uses cookies to offer you a better browsing experience. Visit GW’s Website Privacy Notice to learn more about how GW uses cookies.
