New Mexico State University official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://provost.nmsu.edu/communications/2024/01/ai_syllabus_statement_1-3-24.html
January 3, 2024
FROM: Office of the Provost
SUBJECT: Inclusion of syllabus language clearly stating the level of use of AI permitted in each course at NMSU 
Dear Faculty Colleagues, 
As we navigate the ever-evolving landscape of education, it's important to acknowledge both the promising benefits and valid concerns surrounding the integration of Artificial Intelligence (AI) into our university courses. While we figure out this changing landscape we need to maintain a clarity of expectations for our students. 
Critically, students must be informed as to the acceptable use, or otherwise, of AI in each course. To that end the syllabus generator and canvas template now contains three options for faculty to choose from that will inform the student as to what level of AI use you will accept in your class. This is effective Spring 2024. The syllabus generator always has the most up-to-date information in all aspects, including all required legal requirements. The 3 choices that are presented to select from encompass all potential level of possible use: Broader Use of Generative AI Permitted WithinGuidelines; Use of Generative AI Permitted Under Some Circumstances or with Explicit Permission; No Use of Generative AI Permitted. 
This language was the outcome from a fall 2023 AI task force which incorporated multiple stakeholders for discussion around campus. The task force included Beth Apodaca (NMSU Global), Carley Casey (Institutional Effectiveness), Don Conner (Associate Deans Academic Council), Gaylene Fasenko (Faculty Senate), Ann Goodman, (Division of Student Success), James McAteer (Provost Office), Enrico Pontelli (Academic Dean's Council), Josh Taylor (Division of Student Success), and Kate Terpis (Associate Dean's Academic Council). 
The use of AI in education offers numerous advantages, including enhanced personalization, efficiency and automation, data-driven insights, and increased accessibility and inclusivity. However, along with these potential benefits, we must also recognize and address several concerns including ethical considerations, dependency and over-reliance, equity and access, and the current lack of effective tools to detect AI content. As we consider how to best explore the option of integration of AI into our courses, it's imperative that we approach this innovation with a balanced perspective. Collaboration among faculty can help mitigate concerns. While we engage in these thoughtful discussions, we should seek training and support from each other, and consider the ethical implications of incorporating AI into teaching methodologies. There will be campus opportunities in the spring for everyone who wishes to participate in this training and support. 
Thank you for your dedication and contributions to our university's academic community. 
Best regards, 
Dr. James McAteer, Senior Associate Provost 
OFFICE OF THE PROVOST
Location: Hadley Hall, Room 109
MSC 3445, PO BOX 30001 Las Cruces, NM 88003
(575) 646-2594
provost@nmsu.edu
CONNECT WITH US
