Philadelphia College of Osteopathic Medicine official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://www.pcom.edu/campuses/philadelphia-campus/news-and-events/pcom-news/integrating-ai-as-a-do.html
When we rely on Face ID to unlock our phone, have Grammarly spell-check our email,
                     or ask Google for directions, we're counting on artificial intelligence (AI) to work
                     its magic.

                     As discussed in the New York Times, the impact of AI on our daily lives is rapidly becoming omnipresent. While it's
                     often talked about as a new invention, people have been using artificial intelligence
                     for a while. In recent years, however, AI has found itself at the forefront of many
                     conversations.
Even with its long list of benefits, a number of challenges are posed. For those who
                     work in higher education, there have been warnings about the online platform ChatGPT
                     and its popularity among students – and raised questions regarding ethics and academic
                     integrity.
Emerging as a leader in generative AI, ChatGPT can quickly take inputted information and create entirely new content. In
                     a bind, students might use the site to produce entire assignments, like essays, for
                     example.
With such advances in artificial intelligence, medical schools now find themselves in a unique position as they sit at the intersection of higher
                     education and medicine. 
Doctors and physicians have long used AI to perform their duties, such as dictating
                     and documenting histories and physicals for each patient.
While medical students are learning how to do these things by hand, they are also
                     encouraged to keep up with technological changes and advancements in vital tools that
                     can help achieve better patient outcomes.
“As things grow, you need to be able to adjust with the times,” said Peter Bidey, DO '08, MSEd, FACOFP, dean of the osteopathic medicine program at Philadelphia College of Osteopathic Medicine (PCOM). “AI isn't that new, and certain
                     aspects have been used for years. It's just better and quicker now.”
The speed at which AI can operate is one major reason people enjoy using it. For medical
                     students, artificial intelligence may change the way medical schools operate. Some
                     institutions, for example, are opting for virtual cadavers to learn about anatomy and physiology.
As technology rapidly advances, some might wonder if artificial intelligence could
                     ever replace doctors and physicians. 
Bidey is confident human doctors will continue to play a primary role, keeping checks
                     and balances in place and ensuring proper patient care.
One thing that is certain at PCOM is that students are being, and will continue to
                     be, taught a holistic approach to healthcare. This includes learning how to utilize technology, which could make
                     things more efficient for providers and patients moving forward.
“One of the things I think is good for medicine is that if we use AI properly, it
                     should make our lives easier,” said Bidey. “It's kind of exciting to see how things
                     go.”
For the past 125 years, Philadelphia College of Osteopathic Medicine (PCOM) has trained
                           thousands of highly competent, caring physicians, health practitioners and behavioral
                           scientists who practice a “whole person” approach to care—treating people, not just
                           symptoms. PCOM, a private, not-for-profit accredited institution of higher education,
                           operates three campuses (PCOM, PCOM Georgia and PCOM South Georgia) and offers doctoral degrees in clinical psychology, educational psychology, osteopathic
                           medicine, pharmacy, physical therapy, and school psychology. The college also offers
                           graduate degrees in applied behavior analysis, applied positive psychology, biomedical
                           sciences, forensic medicine, medical laboratory science, mental health counseling,
                           physician assistant studies, and school psychology. PCOM students learn the importance
                           of health promotion, research, education and service to the community. Through its
                           community-based Healthcare Centers, PCOM provides care to medically underserved populations.
                           For more information, visit pcom.edu or call 215-871-6100.

Liandra LarsenPublic Relations ManagerEmail: liandrala@pcom.eduOffice: 215-871-6325 | Cell:
                           267-964-0199
 
© 2024 Philadelphia College of Osteopathic Medicine
