Post University of Waterbury official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://post.edu/student-services/academic-affairs/academic-policies-and-procedures/

This policy defines a credit hour in accordance with applicable federal and state regulations. This policy describes the relationship between instructional contact hours and credit awards, as well as defines engaged academic time.
Post University offers a variety of learning modalities including Main Campus semester-based courses and accelerated courses, accelerated online courses, hybrid site courses, blended courses, independent studies and internships, and experiential learning. Regardless of modality or type of course, students are responsible for engaging in 45 contact hours of academic learning time for each credit of a course during a semester or term.
In a 16-week semester, a credit hour is an academic unit earned for 55 minutes per week of classroom instruction coupled with two hours per week of outside study. Typically, for a three-credit-hour semester course, there is an expectation of three hours of in class learning and six hours of outside study for a total of nine hours of academic work per week. For a blended 16-week course, there is an expectation for in class and outside study to total nine hours per week. Over the course of 45 sessions, there are 136 hours of engaged academic time per three-credit-hour semester course.
In an eight-week, 3 credit-hour course, there is an expectation of 17 hours of engaged academic work per week. In an eight-week 3 credit-hour site course, there is an expectation of three hours of in class learning and 14 hours of outside study for a total of 17 hours of academic work per week. For a blended 8-week course, there is an expectation for in class and outside study to total 17 hours per week. Over the course of 8 weeks, regardless of modality, there are 136 hours of engaged academic time per three-credit hour accelerated course.
In either an independent study or internship, there is an expectation that students will engage in academic work totaling 136 hours per 3-credit course, regardless of modality.
Post University allows eligible, matriculated undergraduate students to apply for college credit for life experiences and completion of select licensure examinations. Through submission of portfolios, students may earn a maximum of 30 credits towards a bachelor’s degree or 15 credits towards an associate degree. Information regarding policies and procedures is available from Academic Advising for Main Campus students or Academic Success Counselors for Accelerated Degree Program students. There are certain courses and subject areas that are not eligible for portfolio credit. Please consult the Office of the Registrar, Academic Advising, or Academic Success Counselors to review any restrictions.
American Sentinel College of Nursing and Health Sciences at Post University defines one credit hour in its course-based programs as 15 actual hours of student engagement in the online classroom and an additional 30 hours of student course engagement through readings, homework and out-of-class work. For each three-credit-hour course, students are expected to participate in in-class (online) student engagement for at least 45 hours and complete 90 hours of work outside the classroom.
For courses that include practice experiences* each 3-credit hour course that includes both didactic activities and practice experiences includes one of the following:
*including practice learning experiences (PLE), practicums (P), simulation (S), precepted practice experiences (PPE) and capstone hours (CH).
Both GPA and CGPA include classes that are required for graduation in the student’s current program of study (including electives) and exclude developmental courses and any other courses considered to be ineligible by licensing, state or provincial authorities. The CGPA shows whether a student is meeting the standards of academic progress, is eligible for graduation and is eligible for academic honors.
If a course is repeated, the grade used in the GPA calculation follows the Repeating a Course policy. The grade earned is then used for both the term GPA and CGPA.
Transfer credit may be granted for courses taken at other institutions. Grade points earned at other institutions are not included in the CGPA.
A semester/term GPA is not affected by subsequent course repeats or other adjustments to the CGPA.
Withdrawal (W) grades are not in the student’s GPA calculation.
The following grades are used on academic records and carry the quality points indicated.
*American Sentinel College of Nursing and Health Sciences not award quality points for graduate students that earn a grade of a B- or lower in their course, or for undergraduate students that earn a grade of C- or lower. Please see the Repeating a Course policy for more information.
Pass/Fail Option
Students enrolled in programs outside of American Sentinel School of Nursing and Health Sciences have the opportunity to select pass/fail grading on a course-by-course basis by completing the pass/fail opt-in form available on the Student Portal.  The opt-in form must be submitted by the end of Week 2 of the Term or Semester.
Students who have selected pass/fail grading and wish to opt out may do so by completing the pass/fail opt-out form available on the Student Portal.  The opt-out form must be submitted by the end of week 4 for an 8-week ADP course and the end of week 8 for a 16-week Main Campus course.  Students should contact their Instructor or Campus Advisor/Academic Success Counselor with any questions.
Undergraduate Students: Undergraduate students who select pass/fail grading and earn a D- or higher in the course will be assigned a grade of Pass (P), which will not impact GPA.  Undergraduate students who select pass/fail grading and earn less than a D- in their course will earn a Fail (F), which will impact GPA.  The grade of UF will remain unchanged and will be assigned to students in ADP courses who have not participated since Week 4.  Students enrolled in a Bachelors-level program may select pass/fail grading for a total 12 credits; only 6 of the 12 credits can be in the major courses*. Students enrolled in Associate-level programs may select pass/fail grading for a total of 6 credits; only 3 of the 6 credits can be in the major courses*. Students must get permission from Program Chair to take a capstone course pass/fail.  Internships and practicum courses cannot be taken pass/fail.
Graduate Students: Graduate students who select pass/fail grading and earn a C- or higher in the course will be assigned a grade of Pass (P), which will not impact GPA.  Graduate students who select pass/fail grading and earn less than C- in their course will earn a Fail (F), which will impact GPA.  The grade of UF will remain unchanged and will be assigned to students in ADP courses who have not participated since Week 4. Students enrolled in the Masters-level programs may select pass/fail grading for a total of 3 credits.  Students must get permission from Program Chair to take either of the first two courses in the degree program or a capstone course pass/fail.
American Sentinel College of Nursing and Health Sciences: American Sentinel College of Nursing and Health Sciences does not utilize pass/fail grades in courses for academic credit.
Certificate Students: Courses that have been graded using the pass/fail option may not be counted towards undergraduate or graduate certificates.
Please note that courses that were completed using the COVID-19 Academic Relief Plan pass/fail grading option in the Spring semester 2020 and Terms 5 and 6 2020 do not count towards the credit limitations presented in this policy.
*Major courses include major core courses, major elective courses, major concentration courses, and major designated writing courses.
The chart below provides information on student populations for whom pass/fail grading may not be the recommended option:
 
Due to the GPA and letter grade requirements of the various military
service branches’ tuition assistance policies, military students using a tuition assistance program may not be able to choose Pass/Fail grading.
 
Transfer Credit
A grade of “T” or “TC” represents the transfer of credit from another institution. A grade of “T/TC” does no calculate into a student’s cumulative grade point average but does count toward pace of completion. Please see the Transfer of Credit Policy for further information.
Alternate Credit
A grade of “CR” represents credit awarded by optional methods such as CLEP and DANTES exams, portfolio, or prior work experience. A grade of “CR” does not calculate into a student’s cumulative grade point average nor does it count toward the pace of completion. Please see the Alternate Credit Policy for further information.
Unearned F
For Accelerated Degree Programs, faculty members will assign a grade of “UF” (Unearned F) to a student that does not complete graded academic activity after the midpoint of a course. When a student receives an “UF” grade, the faculty member will determine the date the student submitted his or her last graded academic activity and this will be considered the student’s withdrawal date from the course.
As a result of receiving an “UF”, a student’s enrollment status may be modified to withdrawn and Post University may be required to perform a calculation to determine how much financial aid the student has earned for the term. This calculation may result in the return of unearned financial aid to the U.S. Department of Education or other third parties and the student may be obligated to pay for charges originally paid by the unearned financial aid and/or return any excess funds paid to the student. Receiving an “UF” may also impair future course registrations and financial aid availability. “UF” grades also count as failing grades in the student’s cumulative grade point average and pace of completion. In addition, please see the Satisfactory Academic Progress policy.
Students within American Sentinel School of Nursing and Health Sciences are not currently assigned an Unearned F (UF). If nursing and healthcare students fail to complete graded activity after the midpoint of the class, they will receive a failed grade, “F”, for that course. This grade will be factored into the student GPA calculation. See the Repeating a Course policy for more information.
Audit
Undergraduate students who wish to enroll in a course, without receiving academic credit, may audit the course. Audit status must be declared at the time of registration and requires the permission of the instructor. Audit status, once declared, may not be changed. The cost to audit a course is half the current rate of tuition. Audited curses will appear as an “AU” on the student’s transcript and not impact cumulative grade point average or pace of completion. Courses within American Sentinel College of Nursing and Health Science cannot be audited.
Incomplete
A grade of “IN” (incomplete) may be requested by a student if the student has completed at least 60% of the required coursework in a course and has a compelling reason for not being able to complete the remainder of the coursework by the end of the term. An Accelerated Degree Program (ADP) student must have participated after the fourth week of the course to be eligible for an incomplete. The decision on granting an incomplete will be at the instructor’s discretion if the student meets the criteria as stated above.  “IN” grades may not be granted in an 8-week online course if the student has not participated in the course later than week 4.
If an “IN” is granted, the student must complete the missing coursework in the timeframe indicated on the incomplete contract, not to exceed eight weeks from the end of the prior semester (for 16-week courses) or four weeks from the end of the prior term (for 8-week courses). Any extension to this timeframe is subject to Dean approval.  It is the student’s responsibility to complete and submit the missing course work within the indicated time frame. Once completed, the course grade will be changed from an “IN” to the earned letter grade by the course instructor. An “IN” grade that is not rectified within the specified time frame will be automatically changed to the default grade entered by the instructor on the incomplete contract. The default grade is the grade originally earned by the student at the time that final grades for the term were due.
If a student who is on a Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) status of Academic Warning or SAP Review requests and is assigned a grade of incomplete for a course, the terms of the incomplete must be resolved, and an earned grade must be submitted to the Registrar’s Office before the student may receive their next financial aid disbursement.  Students on a SAP status of Academic Warning or Academic Review are not eligible for an extension to the Incomplete timeframe described above.
The student should include his/her Academic Advisor or Academic Success Counselor on all communication to instructors when requesting an incomplete, so the Academic Advisor or Academic Success Counselor is aware of the approval or denial and can assist the student if the approval is granted.
Extensions for American Sentinel College of Nursing & Health Sciences
A two-week extension may be requested by a student prior to the end of a term if the student has completed 50% of the required coursework in a course, paid a $150 dollar non-refundable fee, and communicated with their professor that they have requested the extension through the automatic extension process. Extensions end exactly two weeks after the course end date. Discussion forum requirements must occur during the week assigned and may not be made up during an extension. Once the extension is granted, students will receive a grade of “I” (Incomplete) during the 14-day extension period. A grade of “Incomplete” (“I”) indicates that not all required course work was completed during the term/semester. Failure to complete all requirements for the course within the 14-day grace period will result in grades of 0 for all incomplete assignments as well as a final grade consistent with these assessments. It is the student’s responsibility to complete and submit the missing course work within the indicated time frame and notify the instructor of which assignments need reviewing and grading. Once graded, the instructor will submit a grade change to Registrar’s Office and the incomplete grade will be changed from an “I” to the earned letter grade.
Students in the Doctor of Nursing Practice or the Master of Science Nursing program Nurse Practitioner Specializations that currently have an extension for a course are not permitted to proceed to their next course. All coursework and clinical work must be completed to start a new course. Students must contact their faculty member before filing for a course extension and set up a schedule to determine appropriate timelines to complete any necessary remaining coursework. Students must contact the Clinical Coordinator for a course extension involving clinical hour completion. Failure to complete any remaining coursework or clinicals in the allotted time during the course extension will result in the student having to repeat the course, including all coursework and clinicals related to the course.
Students within the MSN-Nurse Practitioner specializations who successfully complete course and clinical components but are overall unsuccessful due to the University Predictor Exam score in the final specialization course may work with their advisor to request and pay a $300-dollar non-refundable fee for an 8-week extension in the course.  Students are assigned an incomplete in this course will be enrolled in the Predictor Success Extension workroom. Upon completion of the 8-week extension (or once the University Predictor Exam is successfully passed, whichever if first) the incomplete will be removed, and the final score calculated per course syllabi.
Course extensions will not be granted for PW501 and PW701 Practicum Workroom(s) or SIMPath courses/competencies.
Withdrawal
A grade of “W” is assigned when a student withdraws, or is administratively withdrawn, from a class. The “W” grade is not included in the calculation of a student’s cumulative grade point average, but is calculated in the student’s pace of completion progress toward completing the program of study.
A grade of “M” is assigned when a military student withdraws in the second half of the term/semester from a class due to military deployment. If the student elects to take a “M” for the course, this may impact their satisfactory academic progress in the future and should be discussed with their Academic Success Counselor. See the Withdrawal policy for more information.
A student with a question or complaint about a final course grade should first attempt to address the issue with the instructor through an informal grade appeal immediately following the posting of final grades per the Academic Calendar. All communication should be done via Post University email addresses with both parties retaining copies of that communication.
The formal grade appeal process involves a student taking the below steps. If the appeal results in a change of grade, the instructor, Program Chair, Dean, or person responsible for the specific step in the appeal process will complete the Change of Grade form and forward it to the Registrar to complete the grade change.  The grade appeal process is as follows:
The first step in the process should be completed within seven (7) business days from the date the semester and/or TERM final grades are due, as indicated on the Academic Calendar. Each step in the process should be completed within seven (7) business days either with a grade change completed by the responsible party or an explanation of the decision of the appeal. All communication with supporting documentation should be completed in writing from the student’s and responsible parties’ Post email addresses.
Students requesting a Grade Appeal in the Nurse Practitioner specializations may not proceed forward in a new course until the appeal has been completed.
The Final Grade Appeal Form is located at the following link:  https://post.edu/wp-content/uploads/2021/06/Final-Grade-Appeal-Form_05-20-2021.pdf
Students may repeat courses already taken under the following circumstances:
When a course is repeated, the repetition appears on the transcript, but only the most recent grade is included in the cumulative grade point average unless the maximum allowable retakes as outlined below are exceeded for American Sentinel College. Students may only earn credit once for a course that is successfully repeated.
Students are expected to fully participate in courses they are repeating. Students must submit original assignments and discussion posts, and repeat any quizzes, exams, practice experience, and clinical work associated with the course.
All courses in the graduate program of study that result in the student receiving a grade of less than a “C-” must be retaken. Upon successful completion of the retaken course, original grade of less than” C-” will be dropped from the student’s cumulative grade point average and replaced with the passing grade.
A record of all failed classes will remain on the student’s transcript, even though the attempt is not counted in the cumulative grade point average. Students may retake a course after failure or withdrawal up to two (2) times (total of three attempts). Students wishing to attempt the course for a fourth time after failure or withdrawal must receive written permission from the School Dean. Students who fail their capstone courses will not be eligible to graduate. Students are allowed (2) attempts to pass their capstone with a grade of “C” or better. Students must petition the Dean or Director of the program to take the capstone course(s) for a third time.
RN to BSN Progression: The standard of performance required for undergraduate nursing programs is C+ (77%) or higher in all nursing courses. Students who earn a grade of less than C+ in any nursing course must repeat the course and earn at least a C+ in order to complete the program of study. If a student’s GPA falls below 2.0, he or she will be placed on academic probation.
RN to BSN/MSN Progression: The standard of performance required for undergraduate nursing programs is C+ (77%) or higher in all undergraduate nursing courses. Students who earn a grade of less than C+ in any undergraduate nursing course must repeat the course and earn at least a C+ in order to complete the program of study. If a student’s GPA in the undergraduate program falls below 2.0 he or she will be placed on academic probation. The standard of performance required for graduate nursing programs is B (83%) or higher in all graduate nursing courses. Students who earn a grade of less than B in any graduate nursing course must repeat the course and earn at least a B in order to complete the program of study. If a student’s GPA in the graduate program falls below 3.0, he or she will be placed on academic probation. A grade of B- is considered non-passing or failing for nursing graduate courses.
Non-Nursing Graduate courses: Graduate students will receive credit for courses in which they earn a grade of B- or higher. Credit will not be granted for grades of C+ or below. Students who receive a B- may proceed but must maintain an overall GPA of 3.0. Students who earn a grade of C+ or lower in a graduate course must repeat the course and earn at least a B- in order to complete the program of study.
MSN and DNP Progression: The standard of performance required for graduate nursing programs is B (83%) or higher in all nursing courses. Students who earn a grade of less than B in any nursing course must repeat the course and earn at least a B in order to complete the program of study. If a student’s GPA falls below *3.0, he or she will be placed on academic probation. A grade of B- is considered non-passing or failing for nursing graduate courses.
*Students in the Nurse Practitioner specializations may take N523 Diagnostic Reasoning to increase their GPA. However, if the student’s GPA does not improve after N523, this could result in removal from the program.
Main Campus students are required to attend all end-of-semester final exams and/or other required final grade activities (e.g., in class presentation) at their scheduled times during final exam week. Final exam week for the fall and spring semesters are identified on the academic calendar and is available to students at the beginning of the academic year (July). The final exam schedule is made available by mid-October for the fall semester and by mid-March for the spring semester. Students will not be granted early release and early access to final exams without presenting a compelling reason (e.g., a previously scheduled surgical procedure) with documented evidence to substantiate the reason (e.g., medical orders). The student’s request, rationale, and documentation for early release and early access to final exams must be submitted to the Dean of the student’s degree program no less than 14-days prior to the start of finals week. The Dean will review and rule on the student’s request.
Pre-arranged travel plans (e.g., air flight booking) do not constitute a compelling reason by itself. Travel plans must accommodate final exam week. All students are required to be on campus during this final week of the semester.
Online students are not subject to the guidelines within this policy. Final exams within online courses must be completed in the Learning Management System by the given deadline outlined in the course.
Post University is committed to the development and delivery of the highest quality academic and instructional experiences. To achieve this and other quality-related educational objectives, Post University applies a variety of tools and studies to monitor and continuously assess the performance of its academic programs, faculty teaching, and student outcomes. The tools include an outcome-based assessment process to test the effectiveness of our program curriculum, and a variety of student surveys and performance indicator tools to evaluate our course performance and teaching practices.
As part of the assessment process, a random sample of student work may be anonymously collected and assessed by assigned faculty and outside professionals. The consolidated score of that assessment is reviewed by the Assessment Committee and other stakeholders and acted on by the Deans and Program Chairs as necessary for program improvement. The consolidated assessment data will also be used as part of informing the public about Post University and will not affect student grading. Students are expected to complete the course evaluation for every class in which they are enrolled.
Student course evaluations are utilized to provide students the opportunity to give feedback on the teaching/learning process, the instructor’s interaction with students, the delivery of course material and the quality of the learning environment.
The information gathered through student course evaluations is to be used by Post administration and faculty to improve instructional practices, instructional design, and the student academic experience. The course evaluation process includes recommendations of resources for the improvement and further development of teaching and learning. Student evaluations are highly valued and are one of multiple measures used for professional development activities.
Post University utilizes various ad-hoc surveys to improve the overall student experience.  Surveys are coordinated to reduce over-surveying students, faculty, and staff which can lead to poor response rates, and potentially unreliable survey data. By limiting the number of surveys, the goal is to prioritize surveys that align to strategic initiatives and inform institutional decision-making and planning. To ensure efficient use of information, analysis of existing survey data, analysis of administrative data, focus groups, or external surveys are utilized to support ad-hoc survey administration.
To be eligible for Title IV federal financial aid funds, a student must make Satisfactory Academic Progress. To meet Satisfactory Academic Progress, a student must meet both the qualitative and quantitative standards explained below.
The Satisfactory Academic Progress Policy for American Sentinel College of Nursing & Health Sciences at Post University students is found in the last section of the Satisfactory Academic Progress Standards section of the catalog.
To evaluate Satisfactory Academic Progress and to determine eligibility for Title IV federal financial aid funds as outlined in the federal regulations, Post University has established minimum qualitative and quantitative academic standards for measuring students’ Satisfactory Academic Progress.
A review of Satisfactory Academic Progress is conducted for both Main Campus and Accelerated Degree Program (ADP) students after each payment period. A payment period consists of one semester (Main Campus) or two consecutive terms (ADP). Students who fall below the required minimum qualitative and quantitative minimum academic standards shall be placed on Warning for the next eligible payment period. Students on Warning are required to retake two failed courses during the Warning period and meet Satisfactory Academic Progress by the end of the payment period. For undergraduate-level students, this includes courses with a grade of F or UF. For graduate-level students, this includes courses with a grade of D+, D, D-, F, or UF. If the minimum standards for Satisfactory Academic Progress are not achieved by the end of the Warning period, the students’ eligibility for Title IV federal financial aid will be suspended, and they will be dismissed from Post University.
Qualitative standards measure students’ cumulative grade point averages.
Post University uses the following escalating scale that undergraduate students must satisfy in both the Main Campus and Accelerated Degree Program programs to meet the minimum academic standards:
 
New undergraduate students who have a cumulative grade point average of 0.00 in their first payment period, regardless of number of credits attempted, will have their eligibility for Title IV federal financial aid eligibilities suspended and will be dismissed from Post University without first being placed on Warning.
Post University uses the following requirement that graduate students must satisfy in both the Main Campus and Accelerated Degree Program programs to meet the minimum academic standards:
In graduate programs, an earned course grade below a C- (i.e., D+, D, D- and F) is considered a failing grade. Students who receive grades lower than C- will be required to repeat the courses and obtain passing grades (i.e., C. – or better). Failure to do so will result in eligibility for Title IV federal financial aid being suspended and being dismissed from Post University. In addition, graduate students must maintain the required 3.00 cumulative grade point average to register for programs’ capstone courses. If they fall below the minimum requirement, they will need to repeat course(s) in the program(s) in which they earned lower grades to increase their cumulative grade point averages.
New graduate students who have a cumulative grade point average of 0.00 in their first payment period, regardless of number of credits attempted, will have their eligibility for Title IV federal aid suspended and will be dismissed from Post University without first being placed on Warning.
The required cumulative grade point average will vary depending on whether the certificate being pursued is undergraduate or graduate:
Course incompletes, withdrawals, and transfers of credit from other institutions are not used as part of the qualitative calculation. Once course incompletes have been converted into earned grades, they will retroactively be used as part of the calculation.
Pace of completion measures students’ progress towards completing their programs of study. Pace of completion is calculated by dividing the cumulative number of credit hours the students have successfully completed by the cumulative number of credit hours the students have attempted. The calculation is performed for both the coursework attempted at Post University as well as overall attempted coursework, including course incompletes, withdrawals, repetitions, and transfers of credit from other institutions.  Transfer of credits count as credits attempted and completed in the quantitative calculation.   In making this calculation, the institution does not offer remedial courses and does not transfer credits for remedial courses.
Post University uses the following escalating scale that undergraduate students must satisfy in both the Main Campus and Accelerated Degree Program programs to meet the minimum academic standards:
 
Graduate students in both the Main Campus and Accelerated Degree Program programs are required to meet the following minimum academic standards:
The required pace of completion for all certificate programs is 67%:
Students must complete their respective degree and certificate requirements within the maximum timeframe specified by Post University, which is set at no more than 150% of the published length of time of the programs as measured in credit hours.
For example:
Certificate in Paralegal Studies = 45-49.5 credits (30-33 x 1.5)Associate of Science in Accounting = 90 credits (60 x 1.5)Bachelor of Science degree = 180 credits (120 x 1.5)Graduate Certificate in Project Management = 18 credits (12 x 1.5)Master of Business Administration = 78 credits (52 x 1.5
Warning
Students who do not meet the minimum standards of Satisfactory Academic Progress as outlined above are placed on Warning for a payment period. Students on Warning are required to retake two failed courses during the Warning period. For undergraduate-level students, this includes courses with a grade of F or UF. For graduate-level students, this includes courses with a grade of D+, D, D-, F, or UF. Students on Warning are eligible to receive Title IV federal financial aid for the next eligible payment period in which they are enrolled.
Suspension/Academic Dismissal
For students who are placed on Warning, the University will conduct an evaluation of Satisfactory Academic Progress at the end of the Warning period. Students who do not meet the minimum Satisfactory Academic Progress standards by the end of the Warning period will have their eligibility for Title IV federal financial aid suspended, be removed from any current and future courses, and be dismissed from Post University. Students may appeal this decision by following the Appeal process outlined below.
Appeal Process
Students whose eligibility for Title IV federal financial aid is suspended, are dismissed, and wish to appeal must submit their appeals in writing to their respective Dean. The Dean will review the appeal, which includes a letter of explanation of the mitigating circumstances that caused the decline in academic performance, supporting documentation of those circumstances, and a plan for improvement. Mitigating circumstances include a student’s injury or illness, the death of a relative, or other special circumstance. The appeal must also explain why the student failed to make Satisfactory Academic Progress and what has changed in the student’s situation that will allow the student to make Satisfactory Academic Progress at the next evaluation.
Main Campus students may begin submitting appeal letters one week before the end of the payment period when they expect to have their eligibility for Title IV federal financial aid suspended and be dismissed from Post University. Students must submit their appeal letters one week before the start of a payment period to be considered for return that payment period.  ADP students must submit an appeal form and provide supporting documents no later than 5 pm EST on Wednesday of the first week of classes for the term they want to return.  If the students’ appeals are submitted and approved before the end of the add/drop period of the payment period after they were dismissed from Post University, the students will be re-enrolled in any current and future courses and will be placed on Probation.
Probation
Students whose eligibility for Title IV federal financial aid is suspended and are dismissed from the University and wish to appeal must submit their appeals in writing to their respective Dean. Students whose appeals are approved will be placed on Probation. Students on Probation have one payment period to improve their cumulative grade point averages and/or pace of completion to meet the minimum standards outlined by the Satisfactory Academic Progress policy. Students who are placed on an Academic Plan will have additional time to improve their cumulative grade point averages and/or pace of completion according to the requirements of the Academic Plan. All students placed on Probation are evaluated at the end of the payment period. Students who fail to meet the conditions of their Probation period and, if applicable, their Academic Plan, will have their eligibility for Title IV federal financial aid suspended, will be dismissed from Post University, and must wait two payment periods before submitting subsequent appeals. There is no provision for amnesty and, therefore, the student must submit an appeal with a description of what mitigating circumstances caused the student not to meet the Satisfactory Academic Progress standards ‘ and what has changed in the student’s situation that will allow the student to make Satisfactory Academic Progress and supporting documentation cannot be the same as previously approved appeals
Repeating Coursework
Students are permitted to repeat courses for which they have already attempted, and the highest grade is calculated into the students’ cumulative grade point average. When calculating pace of completion, attempted credits will include all courses even though prior grades are excluded when calculating the cumulative grade point average. Students may only repeat failed courses taken at Post University a total of two times. Students who wish to retake courses a third time must obtain permission from their respective Dean.
With respect to Title IV federal financial aid, the following conditions must be observed:
Evaluation
Post University will review Satisfactory Academic Progress at the end of each payment period. At the time of the evaluation, if the Satisfactory Academic Progress criteria are not met, students are notified of their status for the following payment period. Post University notifies students by forwarding information to the e-mail addresses maintained in the students’ files. All periods of students’ enrollments are counted in the cumulative grade point average, pace of completion calculations, and the maximum time frame, except as noted above for students who change their programs of study.  If a student changes programs, the credits applied to the new program will count as credits attempted and completed and the grades from such credits will be calculated into the cumulative GPA of the new major.
Students are provided one payment period, hereafter referred to as the Financial Warning period, to meet the required minimum academic standards. If students are not able to meet Satisfactory Academic Progress by the end of the Warning period, their eligibility for Title IV federal financial aid will be suspended, and they will be dismissed from Post University. Students who fail to enroll for their Warning period will remain on Warning status should they resume their l enrollment in their next eligible payment period.
Reestablish Aid Eligibility
Students may reestablish their eligibility for Title IV federal financial aid by meeting the applicable minimum Satisfactory Academic Progress requirements. Students who regain eligibility may receive their Title IV federal financial aid funds for the payment period in which they become eligible.
In accordance with federal regulations, American Sentinel College of Nursing & Health Sciences at Post University (American Sentinel College) has developed the following policy concerning Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP).
American Sentinel College utilizes Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) as cumulative measurements of a student’s academic performance and includes all terms and semesters of the student’s enrollment.
The SAP standards are the same, but the evaluation periods are different based on whether the student is receiving federal Title IV financial aid.
American Sentinel College does not offer non-credit remedial coursework. All courses are included in SAP evaluations.
American Sentinel College measures SAP at the end of each applicable measurement period.  Students are placed into one of the following statuses based on their performance: (SAP measurement periods are described in Section I).
Good Standing
First Warning Status
Please note:  It is the student’s responsibility to know the standards set forth herein, and failure to receive notification does not nullify the student’s Satisfactory Academic Progress academic status.
Title IV Federal Financial Aid Recipients  
Reestablish Aid Eligibility
Students may reestablish eligibility for Title IV federal financial aid by meeting the applicable Satisfactory Academic progress requirements.  Students who regain eligibility may receive their Title IV federal financial aid funds for the payment period in which they become eligible.
Please note:  It is the student’s responsibility to know the standards set forth herein, and failure to receive notification does not nullify the academic status.
Please note: It is the student’s responsibility to know the standards set forth herein, and failure to receive notification does not nullify the academic status.
Main Campus students enrolled for 12 or more credits each semester are considered full-time students. Main Campus students registered for 11 or fewer credits are considered part-time students. The maximum course load is 18 credits per semester. Main Campus students wishing to register for more than 18 credits per semester must have a minimum cumulative grade point average of 3.00 and permission from the Provost or Assistance Provost. In no instance will a student be permitted to carry more than 21 credits.
Accelerated Degree Program students enrolled for 12 or more credits during two consecutive 8-week terms are considered full-time students.  Accelerated Degree Program students enrolled in 11 or fewer credits during two consecutive 8-week terms are considered part-time students.  Accelerated Degree Program students who want to register for nine credits per term must have a minimum cumulative grade point average of 3.00 and permission from their Academic Success Counselor. A request to register for twelve credits or more must receive the Provost or Assistant Provost’s approval. Students should contact their Financial Aid Advisor about any additional costs associated with taking more than six credits per term.
An international student attending in F-1 status is required by immigration regulations to be “pursuing a full course of study” to maintain his/her immigration status. For undergraduate students, “a full course of study” is full-time, or 12 credit hours. If a student wishes to reduce his or her course load to fewer than 12 credits, the student must first consult with the International Student Advisor and then his or her Academic Advisor. The student must obtain the Academic Advisor’s signature on the Add/Drop form and submit a copy of the form to the International Student Advisor before the Add/Drop date.
The following are limited, but important, exceptions to the “full course of study” requirement:
International students pursuing a graduate degree with an F-1 Visa are required to maintain full-time status. Full-time status is defined as 6 credits in a period of enrollment (2 terms) in on-campus or hybrid classes. If a student is taking one on-campus course during a term, the student may take an additional course either on-campus or online, after consulting with their Academic Advisor. The student must maintain on-campus or hybrid courses equaling 6 credits in a period of enrollment and cannot substitute an online course to meet their full-time status. A student can only drop below full-time status temporarily, by filing a request with the assistance of the International Student Advisor and receiving approval from their Academic Advisor. There are limited exceptions to the “full course of study” requirement, as noted above.
For graduate students taking courses in 8-week term, 6 or more credits during two consecutive terms is considered full-time. Students attempting three credits during two consecutive terms is considered part time. Permission to take more than two courses per term may be granted, providing the student has maintained a minimum 3.00 cumulative grade point average and receives approval from the Provost or Assistant Provost. Approval to exceed two courses per term will require the student to demonstrate that he or she is not currently employed (i.e., retired, leave of absence, summer break, on medical leave, unemployed, etc.). Students who are seeking financial aid are advised to contact the Financial Aid Office, as there may be a minimum number of courses/credits required to receive such aid.
Nurse Practitioner students are not permitted to take more than one course in an eight-week term.
Academic integrity is a cornerstone of education at Post University. The promotion of academic integrity is of the utmost importance to the Division of Academic Affairs, its faculty, and the University at large. Thus, it is the policy of the Division of Academic Affairs that individuals proctoring campus-based examinations shall act to promote and ensure fairness in the testing process, prevent cheating and any other types of testing irregularities and take swift action to ensure the quality and integrity of the testing process as needed.
Main Campus Proctoring Procedure
The Learning Center can accommodate faculty members who wish to allow students to make up exams when there is a legitimate reason for why a student missed an exam. It is University policy that, in the absence of an extreme circumstance, students take all exams at the regularly scheduled times.
If it is necessary for a student to make up an exam, the following procedures will apply:
Because of the growing concern regarding students missing tests, detailed records regarding proctoring requests will be kept. The CAS is committed to assisting faculty members, but also seeks to promote a more serious test taking culture at Post University.
Exams at American Sentinel College of Nursing and Health Sciences at Post University are designed specifically for the distance education setting. Some exams must be proctored (taken in the presence of another person who verifies the student’s identity).
Proctored exams must be completed during the testing window assigned.   Examination requirements are located in the course syllabus and on the course homepage.  Adherence to the individual examination expectations is required.
Proctored exam links are located within the course and use an online proctoring service that allows students to take exams from any location, including their home.  The automated service is available 24/7 and does not require outside scheduling.
Requirements include:
American Sentinel College of Nursing & Health Sciences Proctoring Procedure
Students will create a ProctorU account within Moodle at the beginning of their course. An extension will be installed on Google Chrome or Firefox allowing students to enable the online proctor when they begin a course.  Students will need to schedule an appointment with ProctorU to take the exam.  At the beginning of the exam students will click on the Proctor U extension to test their webcam before starting. The exam will then proceed forward, and professors will receive a notification of any red flags when the exam is over.
Post University is committed to presenting an inclusive and diverse educational environment that promotes the ability of faculty, staff, and students to cultivate their ideas and exchange them in a safe and open atmosphere. The academic excellence of Post University depends upon the maintenance of such an atmosphere of academic freedom that promotes the ability to share one’s ideas and viewpoints within the classroom, through publication of research, and by artistic expression, strengthened by civil discourse.
The University’s environment includes classes that meet both in person and online,  we encourage our students, faculty, and staff to present their ideas without risk that those ideas will receive censoring or sanctioning because they are different than the ideas of someone else. Therefore, Post University encourages members of its community to engage in intellectual debate without the worry of censorship. Both students and faculty have the right to express their views across platforms that includes, but not limited to, speech, writing, and electronic communication in the physical classroom setting, in the electronic classroom, and in settings where faculty, staff, and students congregate.
Academic freedom requires maintenance of academic standards and respect for other’s thoughts and efforts in the pursuit of educational exchanges, including faculty having authority in grading assignments.  Post University faculty shall always maintain integrity in the grading process in which biases, prejudices, or different points of view will have no influence.  Faculty have the right to teach as they deem appropriate within the framework of the courses and programs as designed by the respective Program Chairs. The classroom will foster a learning environment that encourages both faculty and students to share their opinions on subjects pertaining to the course. Differing opinions are  respected as long as all parties present those opinions in a responsible and respectful manner as informed by Post University’s expectations of civility.
Faculty, staff, and students have the right to express their viewpoints, opinions, and ideas as long as that expression avoids a manner that substantially impairs, harms, or jeopardizes the rights of others. Freedom of expression will receive support as long as it is not defamatory and is devoid of ad hominem attacks; further, such freedom of expression does protect against the use of racist and inflammatory language which perpetuates unfair expressions based on gender, race, and sexuality, and/or language and ideas which infringe on the rights of others. Faculty, staff, and students have the opportunity and obligation to challenge one another’s views by engaging in intellectual debate and discussion without fear of ramification that those views will jeopardize their professional, academic, or student standing at the University.
Post University supports the advancement of teaching and learning and embraces the responsible use of generative AI tools such as ChatGPT, GPT, DALL-E, Stable Diffusion, Midjourney, GitHub Copilot, and any tool thereafter.
In short, generative AI can be a powerful tool for learning and productivity, but it should be used with caution. Users should be aware of the potential risks and take steps to mitigate them.
Please see below for Post University’s academic integrity policy.
If using ChatGPT-3, you would cite “ChatGPT-3. (YYYY, Month DD of query). “Text of your query.” Generated using OpenAI. http://chat.openal.com/
The purpose of the Academic Integrity Policy is to ensure that students at Post University perform and submit their own, original work and/or give proper credit when incorporating the work of others.  Post University faculty, administration, and staff are dedicated to ensuring a positive education experience for every student.  As such, enforcement of the Academic Integrity Policy is taken seriously, and violations of the Policy will not be tolerated.
Throughout their time at Post University, students can make use of well-known examples of acceptable resources for checking and/or enhancing the grammar of their own, original works including, but are not limited to, Grammarly®, Academic Writer®, and TutorMe®.
Types of Academic Integrity Infractions 
Infractions of the Academic Integrity Policy involve any unethical behaviors at the University and/or actions associated with University classroom learning and content.  Infractions include, but are not limited to, the following:
Cheating, including:
Plagiarizing, including:
Masking, including:
Falsifying information, including:
Utilizing course materials in an unauthorized manner, including:
Post University courses contain copyrighted resources that may not be reproduced, revised, or distributed without the written permission of Post University.  Students in violation of Post Copyright Protection Policy are subject to civil and criminal liabilities associated with the Federal Copyright Act and could be subject to dismissal from the University.  This policy includes providing materials to websites that allow students to download or purchase course materials, exams, assignments (both completed assignment or the assignment prompt), study guides, and course materials.  Distributing Post University copyrighted materials or purchasing/downloading any Post University course materials or assignments from these sites is cheating and may result in legal action against the student and dismissal from the University.
Conspiring, planning, or attempting, including:
Miscellaneous:
Process for Reviewing Suspected Violations of the Academic Integrity Policy
In the event that there is a suspicion that a violation (“Suspected Violation”) of the Academic Integrity Policy has occurred, the Suspected Violation will be reviewed by the appropriate University personnel, as the situation dictates.
The appropriate University personnel will review the Suspected Violation in a timely manner.  During the review process, the appropriate University personnel may request additional information from the student and/or other individuals involved in the Suspected Violation.  At the completion of the review process, the Decision will be communicated to the student and documented in the Academic Integrity Database.  The University maintains the right to review work by the student from previous assignments, exams and/or courses when reviewing a Suspected Violation.
In the event that the review process determines that No Violation has been committed, there will be no follow-up steps required by the student or University.
In the event that the review process determines that a violation of the Academic Integrity Policy (“Confirmed Violation”) has occurred, the Instructor or appropriate University personnel will assign one of the following sanctions:
It is at the discretion of the Instructor or appropriate University personnel reviewing the Confirmed Violation to consider whether the Confirmed Violation constitutes an Integrity Warning or an Infraction.  The severity and/or the student’s intention in the Confirmed Violation will be used to determine whether the student receives an Integrity Warning or an Infraction.  There is no limit to the number of Integrity Warnings a student can receive.
In the event an Integrity Warning is issued, the student involved in the Confirmed Violation will be assigned a zero on the assignment with the opportunity to resubmit new coursework for the assignment under review.  If the Confirmed Violation involves an exam or an assessment, it will be at the discretion of University personnel to determine whether the student may re-take the exam or assessment.
In the event an Infraction is issued, the student may be issued an Infraction 1, Infraction 2 or Infraction 3.  The penalties associated with the Infractions are as follows:
Typically, infractions 1 through 3 are assigned consecutively upon additional infractions of the Academic Integrity Policy.  Unless noted otherwise, the first instance a student earns an Infraction will result in an Infraction 1, the second instance the same student earns an Infraction will result in an Infraction 2, and the third instance a student earns an Infraction will result in an Infraction 3.
The University reserves the right to deviate from consecutive assignment of infractions in the event it the consecutive infraction is deemed to be not suitable considering the specific facts of the Confirmed Violation.  Instead, University personnel may assign a different infraction or a different penalty that is more appropriate considering the specific Confirmed Violation.  The alternative infraction or penalty assigned may be more or less severe than the infraction listed above.  In particularly severe cases, an Infraction 3 may be issued, and the student will be academically dismissed from the University, regardless of whether the student has previously received an Infraction 1 and/or an Infraction 2.
A student may receive an Integrity Warning after receiving an Infraction 1 or an Infraction 2 without affecting the above-described progression of Infractions.
Students receiving an Integrity Warning, Infraction 1 or Infraction 2 may be required to schedule an appointment at the Center for Academic Success (CAS) to discuss the Confirmed Violation.
Confirmed Violations may be appealed by the student.  The appeal process is detailed at the following locations.
Course Grade Appeal (Integrity Warning, Infraction 1, or Infraction 2):
https://post.edu/student-services/academic-affairs/academic-policies-and-procedures/
Dismissal Appeal (Infraction 3):
https://post.edu/about/student-satisfaction-and-performance/student-complaints/
Student Questions
Students are encouraged to contact their instructor, advisor, or the Center for Academic Success (CAS) if they have any questions about Post University’s Academic Integrity Policy. Questions may also be answered through tutorials on current APA format and documentation styles available through the Library.
Post University is committed to having an educational environment that welcomes diversity of opinion and experiences which recognizes the need to protect independent thought and expression. Civility is the key to forming an inclusive university community. The Post University community promotes respectful communication and actions. All members of the University have the right to express their opinions and ideas in an environment that fosters freedom of expression in a non-demeaning and professional manner.
Post University requires all students within our community in academic, social, and athletic environments to uphold the following expectations for civility when on campus, online, at a Post sponsored event, through Post University branded social media, or when acting in any capacity as a representative of Post University. Accordingly, the Post University student community shall abide by the following civility standards:
Violations of Post’s civility code will not be tolerated and should be reported in a timely manner. Post University’s goal is to achieve and maintain a high standard of civility for all members of the University community. Any person reporting a violation of the above expectations can do so freely and without the worry of receiving any form of retaliation for reporting the specific incident.
Depending on the severity of the incident, the appropriate academic personnel may include the Program Chair, Dean who oversees the location where the incident occurred, Academic Dean of the student’s major, and/or an assigned designee who will review each violation to determine the appropriate repercussions. Consequences for a violation of the civility code include, but may not be limited to, a warning up to expulsion from the University depending on the severity of the offense. Students who remain at the University will receive intervention and guidance based on their violation of the civility code.  Students may appeal the final decision of the civility code violation with the appropriate Dean.
A schedule change consists of adding or dropping a course or changing from one course section to another during the Add/Drop period or withdrawing from a course during the withdrawal period.
The Add/Drop period is the time from the start of the term through the Add/Drop deadline, as defined by the academic calendar. For online ADP terms, the Add/Drop deadline is 5 pm on the first Friday of the term. Students who drop their course by the Add/Drop deadline will not receive a “W” on their transcript. Programs within American Sentinel College of Nursing and Health Science have an Add/Drop deadline of 7:59 a.m. on second Monday of the term (see the Academic Participation policy or Academic Calendar.)
Main Campus undergraduate courses have an atypical Add/Drop deadline, so students are advised to review the academic calendar for details. In most semesters, Main Campus students have until the Wednesday of Week 2 by 5:00 p.m. to add or be unscheduled from a course. For Main Campus students enrolled in an online ADP course, they will adhere to the ADP add/drop timeframe.
Students will only be permitted to add courses during the Add/Drop period if prerequisites have been met and there are openings in the course(s) they wish to add. Any change to the student’s schedule should be discussed with the Academic Advisor or Academic Success Counselor, to ensure students have met prerequisites for the course and that the schedule change will keep the student on track to graduate.
Students receiving financial aid should consult with the Office of Student Finance to determine how their award package may be affected by adding, dropping, or withdrawing from courses. The Office of Student Finance makes disbursements after the end of the Add/Drop period to determine a student’s enrollment status and eligibility. Official notification occurs when the student informs the Office of the Registrar of his/her withdrawal.
Students taking Main Campus courses may make schedule changes through the Add/Drop deadline. Students may no longer add courses after the Add/Drop deadline. Students who wish to withdraw from a course after the Add/Drop deadline may do so during the withdrawal period. Students withdrawing from a course during the withdrawal period will have a “W” recorded for the course on their transcript. Students may not withdraw from a course after the last day to withdraw. Students wishing to withdraw from a course must submit a withdrawal form to the Office of the Registrar.
Students taking Accelerated Degree Program courses may make schedule changes through the Add/Drop deadline. Students who change their schedule prior to 5 p.m. EST on the Friday before a Term starts will incur no additional fees and receive a full refund for tuition and fees charged. Students are responsible for confirming course drops with the Office of the Registrar prior to end of the Add/Drop period.
Students who wish to withdraw from an Accelerated Degree Program course after the Add/Drop deadline may do so during the withdrawal period per the Withdrawal Policy.
Military students taking courses have an extended Add/Drop deadline (as defined above) and incur no drop fees if courses are dropped prior to the Add/Drop deadline. Military students who withdraw from a course in the first 7-13 days of the course are refunded 50% of tuition.
Course substitutions can be made with approval from the appropriate Main Campus advisor and Academic Success Counselor for Advanced Degree program students, and Program Chair as documented on the course substitution form.
Undergraduate students who wish to enroll in a course, without receiving academic credit, may audit the course. Audit status must be declared at the time of registration and requires the permission of the instructor. Audit status, once declared, may not be changed. The cost to audit a course is half the current rate of tuition. Courses within American Sentinel College of Nursing and Health Science cannot be audited.
Regular class participation is essential to the educational process. Failure to participate in class or complete assignments may result in a failing grade. Even students who have an excused absence (either due to athletic games or absences approved via prior communication with the instructor) are responsible for all course materials missed or due on the date(s) class was missed. For additional details please see Main Campus Attendance Policy.
Post University considers a student to have participated in a course if the student engages in an academic activity. Academic activity is defined as posting to a discussion board, submitting an assignment, taking a quiz or a test, or other measurable academic activity. Students that have not engaged in an academic activity by 11:59 p.m. on the 2nd Monday following the beginning of a term will be dropped from the course. After this date, student participation is subject to ongoing review.  The first such review will take place on the Monday of Week 4 each term. The student’s financial aid may also be impacted by not engaging in each enrolled course. If the student is enrolled in more than one course in the term, Post University will evaluate whether the student began each course and the student will be dropped only from those courses in which the student has not begun.
Students within the American Sentinel College of Nursing and Health Science should follow the participation policy and guidelines as found in the American Sentinel College of Nursing Participation policy below.
The academic week begins on Monday at 12:00 a.m. Eastern Time and ends on the following Sunday at 11:59 a.m. Eastern Time. Course-based students must post at least one time in week one to be considered as an active student in the course. Students in competency based/project-based programs must actively participate in the weekly sessions with the faculty member to be considered active. Failure to post in week one of the course or week one session of the 16-week period classifies a student as a non-start. Students classified as non-starts who are receiving federal financial aid are automatically dropped from the course/16-week period. Students who add a course or 16-week period on the last day of the week 1 may extend the participation requirement for all programs through the following Tuesday at 7:59 a.m. Eastern Time.
American Sentinel College of Nursing and Health Sciences at Post University takes attendance at the start of each term/semester/16-week period during the second week. To be counted in attendance for census purposes, a course-based student must post to the online classroom at least once in the first week and a competency-based student must meet the week one participation requirement. For students receiving financial aid, failure to post in or participate in week one will result in being automatically dropped from the course.
The Nurse Practitioner specializations include certain synchronous activities within the program that require students to be in attendance and actively engaged during specific windows or timeframes in certain courses. Attendance to synchronous activities is mandatory and outlined specifically in each course syllabi.  This may include, but is not limited to, exams/quizzes, virtual presentations, group work, case studies, and the final graduation meeting. Failure to attend mandatory activities may result in course failure or removal from the program.
Course materials are available for purchase through Post University’s bookstore provider, Ambassador at www.postbookstore.com. Ambassador has created an additional online bookstore specifically for American Sentinel College of Nursing and Health Sciences at https://www.americansentinelbookstore.com. Students should plan to check for course materials two to four weeks prior to the start date of the course to ensure that textbooks will be available in time for class. Students can arrange for materials to be shipped to their homes or (for main-campus and local students) to Post University for pickup in the Mail Room in East Hall during normal business hours.
Electronic Course Materials (ECMs) are course materials that are available in a completely electronic format. ECMs are used exclusively in many courses. Materials may include electronic versions of textbooks, articles, case studies, YouTube videos, and electronic access codes that allow students to access customized publisher materials. A special fee covers the costs of these materials which are available to students on the first day of the term. Post University has worked with book publishers to negotiate the lowest possible prices. Students are strongly advised to take advantage of the automatic, day-one access to ECMs.
Students enrolled in these courses will automatically be provided access to the eBook and charged the fee, but they may choose to opt-out of some eBooks through a link on the Post Online Bookstore home page (www.postbookstore.com). The link can be accessed by clicking the “eBook Choice” button. Opt-out becomes available one week prior to the start of the term and must be completed by the Add/Drop date for the term. Not all courses use materials that can be opted out of.
Students who opt out of their eBooks will have the fee removed from their bill. Students who choose to opt-out, as described above, are responsible for purchasing the required course materials elsewhere, and they will not be eligible for an extension on course assignments while they wait for their course materials to arrive.
ECM (Electronic Course Materials) fees do not apply to students within American Sentinel College of Nursing and Health Science (ASC). ASC students are required to cover all expenses associated with all course materials.
Textbooks purchased from the online bookstore may be returned, provided the following stipulations are met.
Electronic items purchased from the online bookstore may be returned, provided the following stipulations are met.
Post University awards degrees at the end of every term/semester. Commencement exercises are held once a year in May for degree seeking students. To receive a degree from Post University the student must meet the following standards:
Please note: Official academic transcripts cannot be issued if the student has an outstanding account balance with Post University.
For graduate students, the Connecticut Office of Higher Education requires the completion of a culminating experience to exhibit adequate comprehension and acquisition of knowledge from pursuit of their master’s degrees or doctorate degrees. We have developed a series of capstone courses which meet this requirement. Students who fail their capstone courses cannot graduate.
Students are encouraged to meet with their Academic Advisor regularly throughout their programs to ensure they are making progress within their degrees.  While advisors may assist students in the selection of courses, the responsibility for fulfilling the requirements of the program and all Post University academic requirements rests with the students.
The Registrar’s Office reviews the student’s academic file and completes the degree progress audit. After the degree audit is complete, the student is placed in a pending graduate status. Once in a pending graduate status, the student receive an email at the address(es) on file with instructions on how to complete the Graduation Application.
Students who wish to participate in the commencement ceremony are responsible for purchasing their caps and gowns. Information regarding caps and gowns is available on the vendor website in early spring.  Deadlines for ordering commencement regalia are set and specified by the vendor on their website.  There is no guarantee regalia ordered after the deadline will arrive to the student by the commencement date.
Undergraduate Degree Candidates
To participate in the graduation ceremony a student must meet all the following requirements:
Master’s Degree Candidates
To participate in the graduation ceremony a student must meet all the following requirements:
Doctoral Candidates Participation
To participate in the graduation ceremony a student must meet all the following requirements:
Upon successful completion of their coursework, students are issued diplomas recognizing the degrees earned. The diplomas indicate the names of the degrees and the major areas of study.  Minors and concentrations do not appear on the diplomas but will be notated on the official transcripts. Students in undergraduate or graduate certificate programs will receive official certificates.
A diploma will not be awarded to undergraduate or graduate students until all credits are completed. Students with credits remaining may receive permission to participate the graduation ceremony but are not considered graduates until all credit requirements are met. Diplomas will not be granted until all graduation requirements have been met.
Posthumous Degrees or Diplomas
A posthumous degree or diploma may be awarded at the discretion of the Chief Executive Officer/President and/or the Provost. Progress towards degree completion is factored into the decision to award a posthumous degree.
Honorary Degrees or Diplomas
An honorary degree or diploma may be awarded at the discretion of the Board of Trustees, upon recommendation by the Chief Executive Officer/President and/or the Provost.
Undergraduate students do not have a set program time limit. After two (2) years of non-attendance, students are readmitted under the new curriculum in the catalog at the time of readmission. If the original program of study is no longer offered, readmitted students are required to choose a new major. Coursework completed under the previous major may be transferred into the new major, based on course equivalencies and substitution policies.
Graduate students must complete a program of study within a five (5) year time limit from the date of admission to degree status. Should extenuating circumstances arise, students may petition for a one-time, one-year extension for completion of their programs of study. Such petitions must include the signed endorsement of the Program Chair and Dean. The Provost will rule on the petition and make the final decision.
Students in the Family Nurse Practitioner and Adult Gerontology Nurse Practitioner specialization must complete a program of study in no more than 36 months. Students in the Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner specialization must complete their program in no more than 42 months. Should extenuating circumstances arise, students may petition to the Dean of Nursing Programs and Program Chair.
The program time limit for Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) students is used in the calculation of graduation rates. This calculation measures students that complete their DNP degree within a three and a half (3.5) year time limit from the date of admission to degree status. Students who have not completed the degree within the specified program time limit will receive notification about their progress in the program.
An active student is a student who is enrolled in a course in the current semester or term. An inactive student is a student who is not enrolled in the current semester or term. Upon enrolling in a course, an inactive student will be considered active.
A student requesting to officially withdraw from Post University must inform the Office of the Registrar. In turn, the Office of the Registrar will notify the student’s Academic Advisor or Academic Success Counselor and Financial Aid Advisor.  The official date of withdrawal is the date the Registrar’s Office was informed.
Should a main campus student withdraw after the add/drop period and prior to the end of a semester, the student’s official transcript will reflect a “W” (withdrawal) for courses attempted in that semester.  A grade of “F” will be assigned for any courses where the student has not participated for 14 consecutive days (per the Main Campus Attendance Policy).  Should an online student withdraw after the add/drop period and prior to the end of the term, the student’s official transcript will reflect a “W” (withdrawal) for courses attempted in that term.  A grade of “UF” will be assigned for any courses where the student has not participated since the fourth week of the term (per the UF Policy).
The withdrawal period is the period between the Add/Drop deadline and the last day to withdraw, as defined by the Academic Calendar. The last day to withdraw represents the 60% mark in the term as follows:
A student who has officially withdrawn and would like to be readmitted within one year should contact his/her Academic Advisor or Academic Success Counselor. After a period of one year from the official withdrawal date, the student will need to go through the admissions process to be officially readmitted to Post University.
Students who wish to withdraw from the university must notify their student success advisor and must clearly state the reason for withdrawal. The process should be initiated by phone or email and the official withdrawal date is defined as the date the student provides notification.
Students who wish to withdraw from an American Sentinel College of Nursing and Health Sciences course or semester after the Add/Drop deadline may do so during the withdrawal period. The withdrawal period is the period between the Add/Drop deadline and the last day to withdraw, as defined by the Academic Calendar. Students withdrawing from an American Sentinel College course during the withdrawal period will have a “W” recorded for the course on their transcript. Students may not withdraw from a course or semester after the last day to withdraw. Students wishing to withdraw from an American Sentinel College course or semester must notify their Student Success Advisor.  The effective date of the withdrawal is the date the College is notified.  If a student owes any balance on their student account, any refund for withdrawal will be applied towards the balance first before being sent to the student.
The withdrawal timeline for term-based programs at American Sentinel College of Nursing and Health Sciences is as follows:
The withdrawal timeline for competency-based programs at American Sentinel College of Nursing and Health Sciences is as follows:
After week 12: Students may not withdrawal or add a course after week 12 of the 16-week period. Students may request up to two drops from 16-week periods during their program.
Inactive students, those are not currently enrolled in a course, will be administratively withdrawn. Administratively withdrawn students in satisfactory academic and civic standing are welcome to enroll in courses for a one-year period without going through the admissions process. Post University’s Student Account’s Department reports inactive students as administratively withdrawn, for purposes of Title IV financial aid.
Students with American Sentinel College of Nursing are also subject to the Continuous Enrollment Policy.
Students may also be dismissed from under conditions outlined in the Dismissal Policy.
Military students who can no longer begin or continue their education due to a Military service obligation must do the following:
Students who meet the criteria listed above are eligible for the following:
*If the students elect to take a W for the course, this may impact their satisfactory academic progress in the future and should be discussed with their Academic Success Coordinator.
If a military student’s absence will extend into multiple terms, the student will be granted a Military Leave of Absence while they are performing their service obligation. The Military Leave of Absence will expire five (5) years after the end of the service obligation.  Students on a Military Leave of Absence will be able to resume their education without the need of reapplying to Post University by contacting the Office of Military Admissions or the Office of the Registrar.
Post University maintains the right to dismiss students from an undergraduate or graduate program under the following circumstances:
Upon academic dismissal, students will be given the opportunity to appeal the dismissal should they choose to do so.
Directions for writing the appeal letter:You must appeal your dismissal letter by emailing a Word or PDF document to the Academic Appeal Committee to [email protected].  Appeals without letters will not be considered. Correct grammar, spelling, and punctuation are required.  When preparing your letter keep in mind that you are requesting that Post University make an exception in academic policy for you.
1st paragraph: Explain the mitigating circumstances that led to your dismissal from Post.  Examples of mitigating circumstances include death in the immediate family, student hospitalization, documented medical problems and other documented emergencies (medical documentation/death certificates, etc. should be attached to your appeal letter).  Work schedule conflicts, failure to attend classes and minor illness (i.e. a cold) are NOT mitigating circumstances.
2nd paragraph: Describe, in detail, what you have done and will do to improve this situation.  You must illustrate, giving specific examples, that you have resolved the circumstances that led to your dismissal.
3rd paragraph: Identify why you hope to come back to school and what your education means to you.
At Post University, we recognize that attendance represents a key to student academic success. Our courses are designed to engage students and include them in the learning process. Main Campus students completing a 16-week semester or an 8-week synchronous term are expected to attend every class meeting.  Instructors will take attendance for every class meeting.  All students are expected to inform their instructor of an illness or other reason for missing class prior to the class session.
Main Campus students completing an 8-week asynchronous (online) term are subject to the online academic course participation policy outlined in the section above, including the non-participation pull.
Missed classes are categorized as ether excused absences or unexcused absences.
• Excused Absence: An excused absence is an absence that is pre-approved between the student and instructor to warrant missing class. In rare instances, an excused absence can also include an absence that is not pre-approved but has been defined as excused by the instructor. Students with excused absences will be granted extensions on in-class work missed during the absence. Unless specified in writing by the instructor, students with excused absences are still responsible for completing out-of-class assignments by the original due date.
• Unexcused Absence: An absence that is not an excused absence is consider an unexcused absence. As described below, unexcused absences may lead to course failure. Students with unexcused absences should consult the course syllabus and the instructor to determine if late work will be accepted. It is the practice of Post University that instructors strive to support students’ observance of their religious traditions by allowing absence from classes for such purposes and providing ample opportunities for students to make up work without penalty for such occasions.
Students with an excused or unexcused absence from class are responsible for making up any missed work and learning missed class content. Course instructors are responsible for documenting accurate records of student attendance at each class meeting.
Main Campus attendance is assessed in two ways:
1. By Course: Students are expected to attend every class meeting. If a student exceeds four (4) unexcused absences in a single semester course or two (2) unexcused absences in a single 8-week term course, the student may be immediately assigned an F for the course grade.  The decision to assign an F is at the discretion of the instructor.  The student has 14 calendar days to submit an appeal for change of grade to their Dean.
2. By Semester: If a student does not attend any of their regularly-scheduled classes in a 14-day calendar period and the student has not communicated a date of return in the current semester, the student will be administratively withdrawn from the University as of their 14th consecutive calendar day of absence. Excused absences (see above) do not restart the 14-day attendance clock. If a student requires extended medical leave beyond 14-days, the student should contact his instructors and Main Campus Advisor. Financial Aid recipients who are administratively withdrawn from all courses may be responsible to repay their financial aid to the federal government. Students are encouraged to consult their financial aid advisors before withdrawing from the University.
Spring 2023 Addendum to Main Campus Attendance Policy
In Spring semester 2023, Post University is offering courses to main campus students in two modalities, remote and in-person.  Main Campus students must take all of their courses remotely or all of their courses in person. Resident students (including those in Post University off campus housing) and student athletes are not eligible for the remote learning modality.
Remote Main Campus Students:
Students attending Post University’s main campus remotely must declare their intention to be part of the remote learning modality prior to starting their classes.  Remote students’ faces must be fully visible on video for the entirety of the class meeting for them to count as in attendance.  Exemption from the video requirement must be formally approved by the Dean.
In-person Main Campus Students:
Students attending Post University’s main campus in person are required to attend all classes in person for the duration of the semester, inclusive of finals week.
High School Academy Students Attendance Policy  
At Post University, we recognize that attendance represents a key to student academic success.  Our courses are designed to engage students as active participants in the learning process.  High School Academy students enrolled in High School Academy classes held at their high school will follow the attendance policy and its requirements of their high school and not the attendance policy of Post University.  Students are advised to review their high school’s current attendance policy to ensure understanding and to seek clarifications from their teachers as needed.  High School Academy students enrolled in main campus courses at Post University are subject to the Main Campus Attendance Policy described above.  High School Academy enrolled in asynchronous online courses are subject to the online academic course participation policy outlined in the section above, including the non-participation pull.
Post University’s courses contain copyrighted resources created by the University and licensed from various third parties. In compliance with U.S. Copyright Law, these resources may not be reproduced, revised, or distributed without the written permission of Post University.  Individuals found to be in violation of this policy are subject to civil and criminal liabilities associated with the Federal Copyright Act, and risk dismissal from the University under the Academic Integrity Policy.  Unless otherwise noted, student access to these materials is limited to the period of time they are enrolled in the course. Students should contact the library ([email protected]) for information on which resources can be printed.
Post University requires all contracted Course Developers to sign an Intellectual Property Agreement which governs the rights to both arising and background intellectual property as well as copyright notice requirements. All developed course materials, including patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark rights in conjunction with enrollment are the property of Post University. No portion of the materials may be copied or otherwise duplicated, nor may the materials be distributed or transferred to any other person or entity. The materials are for the use of students at Post University. Any other use of the materials violates this policy. Intellectual Property rights in scholarly works belong to the faculty member or student who created the work unless an agreement provides otherwise.
Step 1 of 2
Step 2 of 2
Thank you for inquiring. You must be a licensed RN to qualify for entrance into this program. If you are a Registered Nurse outside of the U.S, please give us a call at 866.922.5690.
 













 
















800 Country Club Road
P.O. Box 2540
Waterbury, CT 06723
Request Info
© 2024 Post University.   Privacy Policy | Terms & Conditions | Site Map
