Regis University official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://epublications.regis.edu/theses/1102/

Home
>
REGISCOLLEGE_ETDS
>
THESES
>
1102

Emma Saurini, Regis UniversityFollow

Trudi Wright
Becky Vartabedian
Regis College
BS
Thesis - Open Access
63 pages
Technological advances occur at a rapid pace and evolve unceasingly. This is exemplified by artificial intelligence (AI), technology that is able to analyze external data to perform tasks that are usually completed by humans. This technology, for better or worse, irrevocably changes how society functions and, most importantly, deeply affects the way humans live, act, and think. With the advent of Chat Generative Pre-Trained Transformer (ChatGPT), a chatbot technology that provides human-like answers to any prompt, powerful AI technology lies at the fingertips of anyone who can access it. In this thesis, I argue that a fundamental property of being human—creativity—is threatened by ChatGPT and its inevitable by-products. Creativity is essential in the process of creating art and, less commonly thought of but equally important, in the academic setting. I explore the importance of human created art by first discussing how art can inform us about history and culture and then analyzing the two-fold beneficial effect creating art has on its creator and perceiver. Subsequently, I debate whether ChatGPT should be implemented in educational spaces. I suggest ways in which it can be used productively and how it could be detrimental. For instance, while ChatGPT can be used for assistance on homework, projects, math problems, proofreading, and essay outlines, using this technology to complete assignments for which the student does not have a proper baseline unequivocally hinders their educational development. Ultimately, this thesis serves to discuss the value of creativity in art and academia and postulate the consequences of becoming increasingly dependent on artificial intelligence to be creative for us.
Fall 2023
Colorado (state); Denver (county); Denver (inhabited place)
© Emma Saurini
All content in this Collection is owned by and subject to the exclusive control of Regis University and the authors of the materials. It is available only for research purposes and may not be used in violation of copyright laws or for unlawful purposes. The materials may not be downloaded in whole or in part without permission of the copyright holder or as otherwise authorized in the “fair use” standards of the U.S. copyright laws and regulations.

    Saurini, Emma, "Creativity in Art and Academia: Analyzing the Effects of AI Technology Through the Lens of ChatGPT" (2023). Regis University Student Publications (comprehensive collection).  1102.
    
    
    
        https://epublications.regis.edu/theses/1102
    

 DOWNLOADS
Since December 08, 2023




Arts and Humanities Commons, 
				
			
		
				
					Education Commons



			Advanced Search
		


Home | 
		About | 
		FAQ | 
		My Account | 
		Accessibility Statement


Privacy
Copyright

