Sacred Heart University official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://www.sacredheart.edu/news-room/news-listing/how-can-artificial-intelligence-be-used-in-education/
Artificial intelligence (AI) seems to be taking over every industry. From AI-generated images to self-driving cars, computers are now capable of doing things that at one time only humans could do. Some are concerned with the advancement of AI and its abilities, while others embrace it. There are solid arguments on both sides. Often, the intended use is the determinant.
As a calculator assists you with math and spell check helps you with grammar, the now well-known AI platform, ChatGPT, can be used as a brainstorming tool to aid you with your assignments and projects when allowed by your instructor. Read below to learn more about AI, its uses in education and how it can benefit you as a student.
AI is the simulation of human intelligence processes by computers. These computers are programmed to process large amounts of data and to carry out complex tasks that can normally only be done by humans. We often encounter AI when using customer service chatbots, which have been around for many years. Nowadays, AI is capable of much more, and we find ourselves using it more often.
The most common AI platform students use is ChatGPT. This program is a tool that uses AI and machine learning technology to generate responses to user inquiries. Created by the AI research company OpenAI, ChatGPT’s name refers to its use of Generative Pre-Trained Transformer (GPT) technology.
AI should be used as a tool to enhance your classroom experience, not to do your work for you. There are countless things that ChatGPT can do for students. Below are just a few examples:
Elizabeth Luoma, director of Sacred Heart University’s Center for Teaching & Learning agrees that the potential uses of AI in the classroom are wide and growing, but also shares how important it is to make sure you clearly understand your instructor’s expectations about whether you can use AI for assignments.
There are many benefits to gaining familiarity with AI throughout your university experience. As a student, becoming proficient in AI can help you build your resume and become competitive on the job market, Luoma said. “With AI gaining traction, it is becoming a standard that professionals have experience in how to effectively use AI technology. By using AI, you are discovering how you will likely use it in your future jobs.”
ChatGPT can be especially beneficial for students whose first language is not English, Luoma continued. “In some ways, ChatGPT can function as a practice conversation partner, with the ability to refine spelling and grammar through iterative questions.” This practice can be very helpful to these students when completing assignments or practicing for assessments.
Despite the advanced technology of ChatGPT, it is not a mind reader; you need to feed the system exactly what information you are trying to get out of it. This skill is known as prompt engineering and is a rapidly growing field itself now offered in a number of courses at SHU.
Here are some tips on how to get exactly what you need out of ChatGPT:
Even though ChatGPT does not technically plagiarize content from the internet (it generates unique responses), using ChatGPT in your coursework might still be considered plagiarism, according to Sacred Heart University’s newly revised Academic Integrity Policy. The University standards, “require independent work by a student, except for those contexts where professors have specified forms of permitted collaboration with other students or with external sources, such as artificial intelligence (AI) chatbots. If no form of collaboration has been specified, students must assume that none is permitted.”
The rules and regulations may differ from institution to institution, so it is your responsibility as a student to know what they are. These are likely found in your professors’ syllabi and/or student handbook. When in doubt, always ask your instructor!
ChatGPT is by no means a perfect system; it is highly recommended that you fact check and proofread the system’s responses to questions and prompts. There is a possibility that the information it provides may be biased or outdated. It has even been known to “hallucinate” or make up source citations that do not exist. The program may also use language that humans don’t normally use. Using ChatGPT is a great way to get a jumpstart on an assignment or project, but it can only do so much.
The Center for Teaching & Learning provides tutoring and academic support for SHU undergraduate and graduate students and instructional development to faculty and staff. To learn more about how the CTL can help you succeed at SHU, reach out to them at ctl@sacredheart.edu.  
Want to hear more from SHU? Subscribe to our newsletters to get the latest updates delivered right to your inbox.
© 2024 SACRED HEART UNIVERSITY
