Seton Hall University official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://www.shu.edu/technology/ai/ai-resources-and-consultations.html
Javascript must be enabled for the correct page display
Academics
Resources
Quick Links
Department of Information Technology
Artificial Intelligence
The TLTC instructional design team is available to discuss your assignments and course
                              policies while considering the new developments in AI. Work with your designated instructional
                              designer to explore instructional options for adapting your course to address the use of AI.
Request a Consultation
Kahn, I. (2023, September 23). ChatGPT Glossary: 41 AI Terms that Everyone Should Know. CNET.  
This is a handy glossary of terms that will come up in conversation about generative
                              AI. The list includes short definitions for terms such as hallucination, guardrails,
                              and emergent behavior which can be helpful when decoding unfamiliar terminology in
                              other articles.  
UNESCO International Institute for Higher Education in Latin America and the Caribbean.
                           (2023). ChatGPT and Artificial Intelligence in higher education Quick Start guide.   
This practical guide from UNESCO provides a getting started guide that includes how
                           to create an account and use ChatGPT. Further sections provide higher education applications
                           of the tool including teaching and learning, research, administration, and community
                           engagement. A section on challenges and ethical implications provides quick takes
                           on concerns that arise in higher education.  
Calhoun, V. A. (2023, May 23). The Future of Higher Education – The Rise of AI and ChatGPT on Your Campus. NASPA Student Affairs Administrators in Higher Education.  
“So, what does AI mean for higher education? The answer remains a bit elusive, but
                              one thing is certain: ChatGPT is just the beginning. As AI continues to evolve, we
                              can expect it to shape our lives in unprecedented ways, including how we learn, teach,
                              and navigate the world.”   
AIPRM. (2024). AIPRM’s Ultimate Generative AI Glossary.  
From students to professionals, this resource is designed to empower every reader
                        with a solid and clear understanding of the critical concepts that drive generative
                        AI. Use this easy-to-understand glossary to confidently navigate the dynamic world
                        of generative AI. Think of each term as a tool, helping you build a stronger understanding
                        and fostering meaningful discussions in this fast-paced field.
Fyfe, P. (2023). How to cheat on your final paper: Assigning AI for student writing. AI & SOCIETY: Journal of Knowledge, Culture and Communication, 38(4), 1395–1405.
Fyfe explores the results of a pedagogical experiment in which honors undergraduates
                           in an interdisciplinary seminar integrated AI content into their writing assignment
                           without revealing what parts were student generated and which were from the AI source.
                           This assignment was followed with a “revealed” Appendix version of the assignment.
                           Students were asked to reflect on ethics, plagiarism, and potential uses for AI assistance
                           in writing.
Foltynek, T., Bjelobaba, S., Glendinning, I., Khan, Z. R., Santos, R., Pavletic, P.,
                              & Kravjar, J. (2023). ENAI Recommendations on the ethical use of Artificial Intelligence in Education. International Journal for Educational Integrity, 19(1), Article 1. 
The European Network for Academic Integrity provides background and context for academic
                              integrity. The article shares recommendations on how to bring students into the conversation
                              about artificial intelligence and its ethical use. Recommendations for educators include
                              training in AI concepts as well as writing relevant learning outcomes tied to learning
                              activities and assessments.   
Kelley, K. J. (2023, January 18). Teaching Actual Student Writing in an AI World. Inside Higher Ed.   
In this article, Kelley shares ten strategies to “AI proof” assignments. In addition
                           to standard recommendations of creating a class policy and becoming familiar with
                           a tool such as ChatGPT, the author provides one paragraph write ups of specific ideas.
                           The use of in class writing based on the student’s turned in digital assignment, trips
                           to the library archives, turning in multiple drafts of work, and turning in raw data
                           to back up work are among the ideas shared in the article.  
Southworth, J., Migliaccio, K., Glover, J., Glover, J., Reed, D., McCarty, C., Brendemuhl,
                              J., & Thomas, A. (2023). Developing a model for AI Across the curriculum: Transforming the higher education
                                 landscape via innovation in AI literacy. Computers and Education: Artificial Intelligence, 4. 
  Four academic areas (Departments of Geography, Agricultural and Biological Engineering,
                              College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, and College of Agricultural and Life Sciences)
                              and four administrative areas (Office of the Provost, Career Connections Center, Florida
                              Museum of Natural History, UF Information Technology) collaboration on AI Literacy.  
  Artificial Intelligence (AI) is a ubiquitous concept and tool already found across
                              society and an integral part of everyday life. As such, basic understanding and knowledge
                              of AI should be a critical component of student education to foster successful global
                              citizens. This position paper describes one possible path to address potential gaps
                              in AI education and integrate AI across the curriculum at a traditional research university.  
Bains, C. (2023, July 29). AI prompt engineering: Learn how not to ask a chatbot a silly question. The Guardian (London, England). 
Concise information organized into specific areas:  
Holt, O. (2023). Brainstorming With AI. TD: Talent Development, 77(7), 24–29.  
At a high level, ChatGPT is a chatbot interface paired with complex AI algorithms
                              referred to as a large language model; LLMs are a type of AI designed to understand
                              and generate human language. Ensure AI Prompts Are Inclusive and Free of Implicit
                              Biases When working with artificial intelligence systems like ChatGPT, it is crucial
                              to recognize that they can be biased based on the data they have consumed. Working
                              with AI as a brainstorming activity To obtain the most accurate response from ChatGPT,
                              it is essential to comprehend its generation process and tailor the question accordingly
                              in a process often referred to as prompt engineering. Prompt: Artificial intelligence
                              has become a ubiquitous technology in daily life.  
Morales, P. (2023). Write ChatGPT Prompts to Improve Learning - Prompts, tips & templates to improve learning
                                 outcomes and protect academic integrity. Honorlock.
While there is concern surrounding the adoption of AI tools, understanding howto leverage AI when creating your test questions and assignments is key toachieving better learning outcomes. But where do you begin? We’ll show you tipsand strategies from Paul Morales, Senior Vice President of Information Security &Technology at Honorlock, that can improve learning outcomes by better assessingknowledge and protecting academic integrity.
Sweeney, S. (2023). Who wrote this? Essay mills and assessment – Considerations regarding contract cheating
                              and AI in higher education. International Journal of Management Education, 21(2).
  The growing incidence of academic dishonesty (AD) involving students using commercial
                           essay writing services (essay mills) or Artificial Intelligence (AI) risks the credibility
                           of assessment approaches within higher education (HE) worldwide. Reflecting on experience
                           from a UK business school, the article explores the potential for novel assessment
                           design and feedback to reduce the prevalence of AD.  
New Jersey Unveils AI Policy to Guide Use by State Employees. (2023, November 20).
                           GovTech. https://www.govtech.com/artificial-intelligence/new-jersey-unveils-ai-policy-to-guide-use-by-state-employees
Ohio Creates Policy and Council to Govern Statewide AI Use. (2023, December 4). GovTech.
                           https://www.govtech.com/artificial-intelligence/ohio-creates-policy-and-council-to-govern-statewide-ai-use
Follow #SetonHall
 
 
 
 
 
 
