Sonoma State University official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://www.sonoma.edu/updates/2024/student-use-generative-ai

Jump to content

TO: All Students
FR: Karen R. Moranski, Provost and Vice President for Academic Affairs, and Gerald L. Jones, Vice President for Student Affairs
As many of you know, generative AI (Artificial Intelligence) tools, like ChatGPT, Bard, and DALL-E, have exploded on the market, and you have likely explored their uses already. Generative AI tools can produce new and unique outputs, including text that sounds human. They assist in tasks such as writing, research, creating computer code, and language translation. As the availability of these tools increases, so does their usage by students to complete assignments, provide answers to tests, and generate creative content. 
We want to remind you that AI can be used in both positive and harmful ways as you navigate your course work at Sonoma State. On our campus we are concerned that students are using AI tools in ways that will harm their academic careers, particularly by using them to cheat or plagiarize in violation of SSU’s Policy on Cheating and Plagiarism. Using AI without examination or proper citation is very similar to copying directly from the internet. It can lead to charges of plagiarism or cheating and sanctions that stay on your academic record and could hurt your chances of getting a job or getting into graduate or professional programs. AI is a tool that cannot replace your learning to think, write, research, and create for yourself. AI is known to generate incorrect information, produce harmful or biased content, and may have limited knowledge of the world and events after 2021. If you choose to use an AI tool, verify any information it provides through further research and be sure to properly cite any content you integrate into your academic and personal projects. For guidance on how to cite or verify AI-generated content, visit, email, chat, or make an appointment with our Sonoma State University Librarians. 
Like the internet, AI is a tool you can use in a safe and positive way. We know from a recent SSU student survey that students have found AI tools helpful in organizing, structuring, or proofreading their work, and many report using it for brainstorming, idea generation, and helping to clarify complex course material. Those are all positive uses of AI, but it is crucial that you check with your professors about using AI in coursework. Instructors have the freedom to decide how AI can be used in their courses and what may constitute plagiarism or cheating in the context of AI. Generally, your professors may take one of three approaches:
If you do not see a course policy statement about AI in the syllabus, please ask your instructor about their policy early in the semester. Instructors may require that you submit assignments to one of the many new AI detection tools out there. Those detection tools are not yet consistently accurate, so if you have concerns you are being falsely accused of using AI inappropriately, talk with your professor first and explain in detail how you completed the assignment or test, how you got your ideas, and how you wrote what you submitted 
AI can be a helpful tool in some courses if used analytically and responsibly. You have a variety of campus resources to assist you with safe and ethical use of AI and with concerns about plagiarism and cheating:
Please talk with your instructors and carefully follow their policies regarding the use of AI tools in your courses. 
1801 East Cotati Ave
Rohnert Park, CA 94928
707.664.2880
