Southwestern University School of Law official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://www.swlaw.edu/MLRC2024

For 21 years, the Media Law Resource Center and Southwestern Law School have hosted an annual forum at which renowned experts discuss the most timely, important, and controversial topics in entertainment and media law. 
Thursday, March 21, 2024
2:00 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. PTSouthwestern Law School4.25 MCLE Credits offeredREGISTER HERE
 
*Subject to change 
We’ll explore the legal issues arising out of the creative industry’s use of artificial intelligence tools in entertainment production. Are there risks in using these tools, and do those depend on whether you’re generating text, images, audio, video, or other content? Can existing copyright and right-of-publicity laws (and would-be regulators) handle the nuance? And what about the First Amendment?
ModeratorVince Chieffo, Greenberg Traurig
SpeakerBen Sheffner, MPA
SpeakerKelli Sager, Davis Wright Tremaine
SpeakerAimée Wolfson, Executive Vice President, Intellectual Property & Deputy General Counsel, Sony Pictures Entertainment
 
In the Ninth Circuit, it has become increasingly difficult to get copyright infringement cases arising from film and TV productions dismissed due to lack of substantial similarity at the motion to dismiss stage.  Even summary judgments have become more difficult to obtain, and the disparate treatment that judges are according to these cases has serious First Amendment implications.  How did we get here, and what strategies are people using to deal with this issue? Is there a split between federal circuits? Are there other quick ways out of these cases?
 Panelists
ModeratorDavid Aronoff, Fox Rothschild
SpeakerDavid Grossman, Loeb & Loeb
SpeakerZazi Pope, Mediator/Arbitrator, Signature Resolution
Robert H. Rotstein, author and attorney, Mitchell Silberberg & Knupp LLP
 
 
Conference attendees will be able to choose between three moderated breakouts during this block focused on group participation and sharing of ideas among participants.
Music
Using a hypothetical based on recent developments, we’ll discuss how substantial similarity in music is off on its own track (so to speak), AI-generated “sound-alikes” and style copies, joint authorship and remote collaboration in the Zoom era, and other topics of interest to attendees.
Bradley Mullins, Mitchell Silberberg & Knupp 
Tracy Rane, Kibler Fowler & Cave
Media Deals
We’ll find our way through the thicket of the interaction between deal-making and documentary production. What issues do you need to consider when negotiating with the subject of the documentary? Can you really not pay the subject of the doc? How do you handle editorial/creative/business approvals if the subject of the doc (or their production company) is executive producing the doc? Can you leverage the social media accounts of the subject in the production and promotion of the doc? Can production standards be both ethical and competitive in this market?  
Alexia Bedat, Klaris Law 
Dale Cohen, Special Counsel, "Frontline,” and
			Director of the Documentary Film Legal Clinic at UCLA School of Law
 The Public Domain
As more and more high-profile works and characters enter into the public domain each year, we’ll discuss what can and can’t be done with this intellectual property. How do you distinguish between versions of a character? What happens when a character is also a trademark? How important are public domain works for training artificial intelligence? Do works created by artificial intelligence simply enter the public domain upon creation?  
Art Neill, Executive Director & Associate Clinical Professor, New Media Rights/California Western School of Law
Erika Lee, Assistant Director, New Media Rights/California Western School of Law
Music
 
 Media Deals
The Public Domain
 
This session will discuss news coverage of major events (including the Israel-Hamas War, the Ukraine-Russia War, and the upcoming ’24 election), focusing on issues of bias, access and coverage, silos and polarization, disinformation, defamation, and more.
ModeratorGeorge Freeman, MLRC
SpeakerJeff Glasser, General Counsel, Los Angeles Times
SpeakerAdam Nagourney, author and journalist, New York Times
SpeakerTerry Tang, Interim Executive Editor, Los Angeles Times
SpeakerAdam B. Vary, Senior Entertainment Writer, Variety
 
 




Click to register now!
Registration deadline is March 21, 2023.
No refunds will be given for cancellations after 9 a.m. (PST) on March 15, 2024.
The conference offers four MCLE credits in accordance with the State Bar of California MCLE guidelines.
We are extremely excited to present this year’s conference at Southwestern Law School. 
Address: 3050 Wilshire Blvd, Los Angeles, CA 90010
Southwestern is located only three blocks east of Vermont Avenue on Wilshire Boulevard. The campus is situated between the cross streets Westmoreland Avenue and Wilshire Place. The parking entrance is on Wilshire Place at 7th Street. 
If you are taking the subway, take the Red Line or the Purple Line to the Wilshire/Vermont Station. Walk approximately one block east along Wilshire Boulevard. Turn right on Westmoreland to access the pedestrian gate.
For rideshare, please use the address 675 S Westmoreland Ave, Los Angeles, CA 90005, and access the pedestrian gate to the Bullocks Wilshire Building.


The Media Law Resource Center (MLRC) is a non-profit membership association for content providers in all media and for their defense lawyers, providing a wide range of resources on media and content law and policy issues. These include news and analysis of legal, legislative, and regulatory developments; litigation resources and practice guides; and national and international media law conferences and meetings. MLRC also works with its membership to respond to legislative and policy proposals and speaks to the press and public on media law and First Amendment issues. MLRC was founded in 1980 by leading American publishers and broadcasters to assist in defending and protecting free press rights under the First Amendment. Today MLRC is supported by over one hundred and forty members, including leading publishers, broadcasters, cable programmers, internet operations, media and professional trade associations, and media insurance professionals in America and around the world. The MLRC’s Defense Counsel Section includes more than 215 law firms worldwide that specialize in media defense representation.
 
Through the Donald E. Biederman Entertainment, Media, and Sports Law Institute (BEMLI), Southwestern Law School offers the most comprehensive entertainment and media law curriculum in the United States.  Ranked 6th on Hollywood Reporter’s “America’s Top Ten Entertainment Law Schools,” Southwestern’s extensive course offerings, international programs, externships, practicums, and other co-curricular activities prepare graduates for the practice of entertainment law across both traditional and digital media, such as film, television, music, theater, advertising, sports, and journalism. Southwestern has an outstanding entertainment and media law faculty, and its graduates occupy important positions across a broad range of entertainment and media industry organizations.
©2024 Southwestern Law School. All rights reserved.
Hours of Operation
Monday - Thursday, 9 a.m. - 6 p.m.
Friday, 9 a.m. - 4 p.m.*
*Most offices work remotely on Fridays. View the 2024 holiday schedule here.  
 
Southwestern Law School is approved by the American Bar Association (Council of the American Bar Association Section of Legal Education and Admissions to the Bar, 321 North Clark Street, Chicago, IL 60654, 312-988-6738) and is a member of the Association of American Law Schools.
 
Southwestern Law School prohibits discrimination and harassment on the basis of race (including hairstyle and hair texture), ethnicity, color, religion, creed, ancestry, national origin, sex, gender (including pregnancy, childbirth, breastfeeding, or related medical conditions), sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, parental status, marital status, age (40 and over), disability (mental and physical), medical condition, citizenship status, military status or service, veteran status, genetic information, or any other classification protected by law in matters of admissions, employment, housing, or services, or in the educational programs (including retention of students) or activities Southwestern operates. Please direct all inquiries regarding Southwestern’s nondiscrimination policies to:
 
General Counsel
3050 Wilshire Boulevard
Los Angeles, CA 90010
(213) 738–6626
