Southern Utah University official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://www.suu.edu/cti/academic-integrity-tools-and-statements.html



Southern Utah University Homepage


Southern Utah University views academic integrity as a vital component of academic success. There are two key tools available to SUU faculty to monitor academic integrity within their courses. It is important to discuss what constitutes academic integrity within your course and at Southern Utah University. For face-to-face courses, this can be done as a class discussion during the first few class meetings. In online courses, this can be a bit more difficult. SUU has created an Academic Integrity Module for Canvas shells that can be used for all modalities that utilize Canvas.
At SUU, faculty members have access to two tools to assist in monitoring academic integrity. These two tools are:
All modalities of learning at SUU can utilize the similarity checker for written assignments. Online courses may use Proctorio to monitor academic integrity during quizzes and exams, while face-to-face courses should utilize SUU Testing Center or classroom time to administer quizzes and exams.
Additionally, SUU recognizes the emergence of generative Artificial Intelligence (AI) in higher education. CTI has provided examples of generative AI syllabus statements used at SUU and other higher education institutions. CTI also encourages that faculty have open conversations with their colleagues as we navigate this unique tool that is impacting higher education and the world around us.
Regardless if you decide to utilize these tools and statements, it is important to familiarize yourself with the SUU Policy 6.33: Academic Integrity and procedures for reporting academic integrity violations to the Dean of Students Office.
All modalities at SUU can utilize Canvas for submitting assignments to help faculty ensure that students are following the appropriate standards for citing resources. Below are two guides that you may find beneficial.
While academic integrity is ultimately up to each individual student, CopyLeaks can assist you in identifying similarities between the submitted assignment and source materials used to create the assignment. It is important to note that tools such as CopyLeaks do not detect plagiarism but instead identify similarities. In some cases, students have copied their own work without citing their work (self-plagiarism). In other cases, significant similarities exist, but evaluation by the instructor shows proper citation in every instance. Here are some helpful tips and best practices when utilizing similarity checking software.
Encourage students to create original content by using unique assignment prompts that ask students to connect the subject matter to their personal lives/opinions/experiences.
Support students by scaffolding assignments (for example, students submit a rough draft prior to the final draft) to reduce the likelihood of plagiarism.
If a student’s assignment contains uncited/unsourced material, use it as an opportunity to discuss academic integrity, including how to correctly quote and cite sources.
Regardless of the tool you decide to implement, inform and educate students about its use.
When students submit an assignment that is utilizing CopyLeaks, they will be required to acknowledge that the assignment is being reviewed for similarities. Currently, the acknowledgement statement reads:
"I understand this submission is being reviewed for originality through CopyLeaks, and Southern Utah University's Academic Integrity policy applies to this submission."
Faculty and students all have a strong interest in maintaining the integrity of exams and quizzes within courses. SUU utilizes Proctorio for securing online exams located within SUU’s Learning Management System, Canvas. Proctorio can be used to record and monitor over 20 suspicious behaviors during a remote exam. It is important to understand how Proctorio works before making an accusation of violating academic integrity. The Center for Teaching Innovation has created multiple resources to assist you with learning more about Proctorio.
If you have additional questions, please contact CTI at canvas@suu.edu or by phone at (435) 865-8555.
If you are teaching a face-to-face course, you should utilize SUU’s Testing Center.
Proctorio puts student privacy first. Here are some highlights from the Privacy Policy:
As technology continues to evolve, artificial intelligence (AI) will continue to play a role within education. There are both benefits and concerns involved any time a new technology is introduced to society and especially higher education. At SUU, it is up to each individual faculty member and department to determine how, why, and when AI tools can be used as part of a student’s coursework. CTI encourages faculty to discuss examples of appropriate uses of AI-generated materials and what uses would be considered a violation of SUU Academic Integrity policy. 
Knowing your stance on AI-generated materials is great. However, it is important that you communicate your stance with your learners. If they are not allowed to utilize AI-generated materials and tools, then it needs to appear not only in the syllabus but also in the assignment instructions. The same is true if you support the use of AI-generated materials.
“The use of generative Artificial Intelligence (AI) in higher education is an ever evolving situation. As AI continues to evolve and more tools begin to include AI into their products, this course will have the flexibility to ebb and flow with these changes. As such, I will provide clear instructions in each assignment as to whether generative-AI is allowed for that assignment.”
“Within this course, we will be utilizing artificial intelligence (AI) as part of our learning process. I will assume that submitted assignments have either been co-authored/created or are entirely the product of an AI application. Grading for this course will be partially based on your ability to harness and proficiently utilize this new technology within our field of study.”
“Generative Artificial Intelligence (AI) tools, such as ChatGPT and BingAI, may be used on all assignments in this class. You are responsible for the final product submitted, so make sure your submission is accurate and your sources are reliable.”
“Within this course, you are not allowed to utilize artificial intelligence (AI) applications to create, draft, or complete the majority of the assignments. However, there are some assignments that indicate AI is allowed. Within the instructions of those assignments you will find directions on how and why AI is allowed as part of that specific assignment. If you are unsure if you can use AI applications as part of the assignment, please reach out to me via the General Q&A Discussion board or by emailing me directly.”
“Generative Artificial Intelligence (AI) tools, such as ChatGPT and BingAI, may be allowed on some assignments in this class. Each assignment will include a statement indicating whether generative AI is allowed or not, and if allowed, how it could be used. If you choose to use generative AI on an assignment where it is allowed, you are responsible for the final product submitted, so make sure your submission is accurate and your sources are reliable. On any assignment prohibiting its use, any perceived use of generative AI will be investigated for possible submission to the university as cheating.”
“Within this course, all submitted assignments should be written, developed, created, or inspired by you. If any work is created by artificial intelligence (AI) it will be considered plagiarized work and a violation of SUU Policy 6.33: Academic Integrity. This could result in a failing grade to disciplinary action through the Dean of Students’ Office. AI is an evolving technology and will impact our academic, professional, and personal lives. It is important that as part of your education, you learn to critically think, create, and evaluate products/assignments.”
“Generative Artificial Intelligence (AI) tools, such as ChatGPT and BingAI, are not allowed to be used in this class. Although the use of these types of tools may be allowed in other classes or are used professionally, this class will focus on learning foundations without the aid of generative AI. Any perceived use of generative AI will be investigated for possible submission to the university as cheating.”
Below are just a few examples of how SUU’s faculty can modify assignments or create opportunities to discuss utilizing AI-generated materials.
