St. Mary's University of Minnesota official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://today.smumn.edu/faculty-and-staff/list/
The 1st Annual Coulee Region Healthcare Career Festival is being held at UW LaCrosse on Wed. 4/10 at noon to…
Elite DNA Behavioral Health is hosting A Day in the Life of a Clinical Therapist on Wed. 3/28 at 4:30…
Handshake is hosting a virtual information session for student athletes Thursday, March 28 at 11:00 a.m.
Drop by Saint Mary’s 125 today to discuss AI in the classroom
An Experience of Restorative Justice 
Bookstore Easter Break Information
Congratulations to the winners of the Pitch Contest!!!
Join us on April 8th in Minneapolis at the Spring Social Honoring Employees and Retirees
Student thesis work focused on chemical signatures from wild bergamot leads to publication
Handshake is hosting a virtual information session for student athletes Thursday, March 28 at 11:00 a.m.
Math, Computer Science, and Physics department is organizing a very first programming contest inviting other local universities.
Saint Mary’s Women’s Soccer is holding a Parent’s Night Out on Saturday, March 23 from 5 to 8 p.m.
Open Mic Night!
Join us on April 8th in Minneapolis at the Spring Social Honoring Employees and Retirees
Lasallian Women – presentation by Dr. Sue Hines 
HOF Profile: Jamie (Rattunde) Nelson B’05
HOF Profile: Jenny (Folgers) Baertsch B’05
HOF Profile: Marc Weisenburger B’75
Tom Vatterott’s passion for social justice is evident in everything he does.
Please join the conversation
Join the Blended Learning & Technology FLG to discuss generative AI
Career Services & the PR Business Club invite you to learn tips & tricks to conquer your fear of public…
Morning of Friday, March 22
Join us on April 8th in Minneapolis at the Spring Social Honoring Employees and Retirees
12:15 – 1:15 PM | Wednesday, March 20th 
Staff travel to Albuquerque for a Clean Water Act training that GSS helped plan and organize with partners.
Virtual Formation Session with Matt Gerlach & Matt Isaia
Join us on April 8th in Minneapolis at the Spring Social Honoring Employees and Retirees
University faculty and staff are invited to an open house to welcome the new Chief Financial Officer, Fernando Bucaro, to…
Career Services & the PR Business Club invite you to learn tips & tricks to conquer your fear of public…
Negotiating Your Future virtual workshop Tuesday, 3/19 at 12:15 p.m.
The Student Senate and several other students enjoyed a successful Day at the Capitol last week.
The National Park Service is currently accepting applications for their Mississippi River Fellowship. Applications due April 12.
Clearance Sale at the Bookstore
Freshman & Sophomores Fastenal is hiring for their Co-op Program. A fantastic, paid, opportunity! Apply by March 26.
Career Services & the PR Business Club invite you to learn tips & tricks to conquer your fear of public…
Registration for Hendrickson Forum closes Wednesday, March 27. Join us!
Negotiating Your Future workshops are being held Mon. 3/18 in Winona & Tue. 3/19 virtually. Please encourage students to attend.
Donuts and Coffee! BYOM!
Please pray for the father of Dr. Matthew Gerlach
Join us on April 8th in Minneapolis at the Spring Social Honoring Employees and Retirees
University faculty and staff are invited to an open house to welcome the new Chief Financial Officer, Fernando Bucaro, to…
A Special Presentation for De La Salle Week: Readers Theater and Reception
Morning of Friday, March 22
University faculty and staff are invited to an open house to welcome the new Chief Financial Officer, Fernando Bucaro, to…
Please pray for Helen “Cleo” Bruckmeier, mother of Michael Charron, ’79, and mother-in-law of Prof. Lori Charron
Want to perform live music? Gaslight auditions will be held next week March 21st-24th for our shows on April 19th-20th!
TODAY IS THE LAST DAY!
If you plan to enroll for an internship for credit for the summer or fall you will need to complete…
New Job Market Insights tool offers opportunity to explore career path, salary data or identify skills needed to build or…
SMU student and brother of Phi Mu Alpha is performing at tonight’s Live & Loud
Reserve your spot
Speak with a 2023 SMU student participant
Let’s celebrate the rich coeducational spirt that has profited immeasurably from the presence of female voices of students, faculty and…
Negotiating Your Future workshops are being held Mon. 3/18 in Winona & Tue. 3/19 virtually. Please encourage students to attend.
After Hours Location Change 
Join us for the launch of two faculty learning groups this spring to learn by association with, from, and for…
Join the WFS for painting terracotta pots, making garden stakes, and making and decorating planter boxes.
Career Services has officially launched the new Virtual Career Center
Seniors & juniors join WNB Financial to learn about benefits packets and how to understand them when negotiating job offers.
Hear what it was like working in a public health department during COVID-19 pandemic
Pleae join us next Tuesday to celebrate our Lasallian Catholic Heritage
With midterm grades published at Winona, and the term ramping up at SGPP, a refresher on how to have conversations…
Speak with a 2023 SMU student participant
New Analytics is a feature developed by Canvas to provide more data for instructors.
Opportunities for You
Each year, Saint Mary’s University of Minnesota participates in a program called Innovation Scholars run by the Minnesota Private Colleges Council.
Three Brothers will join Brothers Larry and Juan Manuel for De La Salle Week
Celebrate our Lasallian Catholic Heritage!
Seniors & juniors join WNB Financial to learn about benefits packets and how to understand them when negotiating job offers.
Thank you to all religious sisters, especially our Religious Sisters of Mercy!
Join us for the Spring 2024 Cardinal Virtue Lecture on justice and forgiveness this Thursday, March 14th at 12:15 PM…
The Isalmic Season of Fasting
Please join us for one or all of the events!
Reminder 
The third annual Business Intelligence Summit will take place on March 21st. Featuring top industry key note speakers and an…
Seniors & juniors join WNB Financial to learn about benefits packets and how to understand them when negotiating job offers.
Human Engagement and Intentional Conversations 
Virtual Formation Session with Matt Gerlach & Matt Isaia
Join us on Tuesday, March 12th to discuss sleep with Dr. Erik K. St. Louis!
Cultural Engagement and Professional Development Opportunity
Spring Music Concert March 17th 
Dr. Elil Yuvarajan joins faculty in the Doctorate in Counseling Psychology in Clinical Psychology (Psy D). 
Stop by the our advising table on the main level of Aquinas Hall on Monday, March 11th!
Minnesota’s Social Work Advocacy Week Took Place Last Week, With Hundreds of Social Workers Gathering to Participate From Across the…
The internet in St. Joe’s will be down due to IT maintenance on Wednesday March 6th starting at 9am.
New Analytics is a feature developed by Canvas to provide more data for instructors.
University faculty and staff are invited to an open house to welcome the new Chief Financial Officer, Fernando Bucaro, to…
Learn more about research that will be presented at the upcoming Doctoral Research Symposium 
Tomorrow Morning! 
Last day to vote for the 2024 Outstanding Senior finalists
The Business Intelligence Summit is a premier gathering of industry leaders, analysts, and professionals focused on leveraging business and strategic…
University faculty and staff are invited to an open house to welcome the new Chief Financial Officer, Fernando Bucaro, to…
Donate new or gently used books for seniors at Ebenezer Senior Care and Children at Lutheran Social Services
Exhibition in Lillian Davis Hogan Galleries from Feb 28 – March 29
Open Mic Night!
Invite to employees from WFS
Word on Fire Catholic Ministries Seeking Freelance Photographers & Videographers for events in the Winona-Rochester Diocese.
Internships at the National Security Agency (NSA) Information Session Today at 4 pm
AmeriCorps service with College Possible Info Session Today at 11 a.m.
The Mayo Clinic is hosting virtual information sessions to learn about Clinical Research and Nursing careers today. Check them out…
Conflict Resolution Training 
Spring Break Bookstore Information
Updated Campus Safety Information
Do you know what percentage of students at the College are involved in intercollegiate athletics?
Podcast host Ben Rodgers sits down with Julie Gauderman, DNAP, to discuss the healthcare crisis’ impact on practitioners, patients, and…
Student to conduct experiment on effects of fireworks on animals. Noise may be heard in Aquinas Hall
Benefits 101: decoding the world of work perks virtual event today at 1:15 – 2 p.m. CST
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management Virtual USAjobs/Federal Hiring Q&A
LinkedIn Professional Branding Workshop by Medtronic Tuesday, 2/27 at noon.
The Mayo Clinic is hosting virtual information sessions to learn about Clinical Research and Nursing careers tomorrow. Check them out…
Countdown to College is looking for summer camp counselors for July 2024! 
When faced with adversity, Roberta Reindorf B’14, M’23 finds strength in the quotes she hangs on her office walls…
Invite to employees from WFS
Benefits 101: decoding the world of work perks virtual event tomorrow, Tue. Feb. 27 1:15 – 2 p.m. CST
The Mayo Clinic is hosting virtual information sessions to learn about Clinical Research and Nursing careers with Mayo. Check them…
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management Virtual USAjobs/Federal Hiring Q&A
LinkedIn Professional Branding Workshop by Medtronic Tuesday, 2/27 at noon.
Please join in praying for Laurie Jandrich
Downwind advocates for marginalized students
Reminders in Canvas as the term ends
Please vote for our Outstanding Seniors 2024!
The MSW Program awarded four students the Sauer Family Foundation Stipend for Spring 2024
Biology Students present their research at the Minnesota Private Scholars at the Capitol
Buddist Festival Celebrated on February 24
Safety information for staff
Medtronic is hosting a resume/interview workshop today for students interested in applying for their Summer 2025 internship program. Sign up…
Do you have all of your textbooks?
Immaculate Heart of Mary Seminary’s metal band, Immaculate Metal will perform at tonight’s Live & Loud.
Join us for the Spring 2024 Cardinal Virtue Lecture March 14th at 12:15 PM on Zoom with Q&A following at…
Maxwell angles for women’s perspective in fishing
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management Virtual USAjobs/Federal Hiring Q&A
Invitation to Participate in Convocation
Faculty-led Travel-study Course, Spring Semester 2025
The Southern Minnesota Medical Examiner’s Office is currently accepting applications for its summer Forensic Science Internship Program.
SMU sponsoring fan bus to women’s hockey playoff game at Augsburg
Saturday, March 2nd at 8:30 AM: A morning with Dr. Yohuru Williams (and free breakfast). 
The Nursing Department is excited to announce a joyful arrival!
Faculty-led Travel-study Course, Spring Semester 2025
Future Health Professionals Club is hosting a blood drive on 4/2
Please consider attending the women’s hockey team playoff game at Augburg University ob Saturday, Feb.24th. 
Please pray for Paul Elmstrand, Matthew Ruge, and Adam Finseth
The Saint Mary’s men’s hockey team will host St. Olaf in the first game of the MIAC Playoffs on Wednesday,…
Benefits 101: decoding the world of work perks virtual event Tue. Feb. 27 1:15 – 2 p.m. CST
There are several upcoming opportunities available to help you prepare your resume and interviewing skills–Check them out on Handshake!
Witt builds relationships as Hennepin County sheriff
Countdown to College is looking for summer camp counselors – free housing, meals, and more! 
Please pray for Thomas Gerlach
Six Biology students received the Tribeta National research grant.
Dr. Anthony Leigh M’16 spent the first 10 years of his career in government, first as a legislative assistant in…
Join us on in-person or virtually Monday, February 19th from 12- 1 pm on supporting your advisees with disabilities
Faculty-led Travel-study Course, Spring Semester 2025
Thank you to everyone who attended, interviewed or reviewed resumes, sent your students or helped to make Cardinal Career Prep…
There are several upcoming opportunities available to help you prepare your resume and interviewing skills–Check them out on Handshake!
Please pray for Fredrick John Busse, Grandfather of Tricia Dobrient
Study in Italy, Spain or France
Explore the intersection of music, anxiety, and well-being with this performance from the Minnesota Orchestra.
Hughes named first African American woman president at Bay College
Student Academic Support Services is excited to announce that writing services will now report to the Student Success Center.
Study in Argentina, Puerto Rico, Spain or Cuba
A lifelong Minnesotan, Saint Mary’s senior Abby Nosbisch grew up a loyal Minnesota Vikings fan.
Finalists Named for the Outstanding Senior Award 2024
As we are in week 6 and on the verge of midterms, now is the time to submit an early…
The Office of Institutional Effectiveness is happy to report the student enrollment data at the SGPP as of the spring…
FREE movie night with popcorn in Studio S – Friends, Family, and Community Invited! 
Prepare your heart for the season of prayer, fasting, and almsgiving
Let’s “lunch” together
Celebrate the beginning of the Lenten Season
As a reminder, we updated the Google distribution lists for staff and faculty this past fall! Read the full article…
Beginning to look for a job or internship? Attend the Internship & Job Search Strategies workshop on Tuesday, February 13…
The Southern Minnesota Medical Examiner’s Office is currently accepting applications for its summer Forensic Science Internship Program.
Beginning to look for a job or internship? Attend the Internship & Job Search Strategies workshop on Tuesday, February 13…
Celebrate the beginning of the Lenten Season
Wolf and Keeley preparing for careers in medicine
Register now to cast ballots in primary elections.  The links in the article work for every state.
Saint Mary’s Libraries offers a 24/7 Chat Service. 
A Free Concert Celebrating the Life, Jazz Music, and Catholic Faith of Mary Lou Williams
There are a few spots remaining to sign up for in-person mock interviews and resume reviews with employers. Don’t miss…
Last day to submit nominations for the Outstanding Seniors
All advisers are welcome to join us Monday, February 12  at 12:15pm in Aquinas Hall 310.
On Friday, February 9 the Lasallian World and Church celebrates Saint Miguel of Ecuador
Learn about 50+ Programs Abroad 
Sharing and Caring Hands founder, Mary Jo Copeland, has been named this year’s recipient of Saint Mary’s University’s Hendrickson Medal…
What’s New in the Bookstore?
Please pray for the repose of Col. Bruce David Brandes, ’66
Beginning to look for a job or internship? Attend the Internship & Job Search Strategies workshop on Tuesday, February 13…
There are a few spots remaining to sign up for in-person mock interviews and resume reviews with employers. Don’t miss…
We honor and celebrate the rich legacy, profound achievements, and enduring contributions of Black individuals and collectives in our nation. 
Mardi Gras Potluck
Consider registering for Day at the Capitol scheduled for March 12, 2024.
Seven Saint Mary’s University of MN Biology students presented their research projects at the Seven Rivers Undergraduate Research Symposium 
Beginning to look for a job or internship? Attend the Internship & Job Search Strategies workshop on Tuesday, February 13…
There are several upcoming opportunities available to help you prepare your resume–Check them out on Handshake!
Please pray for the family of Br. Shahzad
SAI’s annual Fireside variety show is almost here and you don’t want to miss it!!
Wieser conducts ongoing research about women in the workforce
Join CELT and the Hendrickson Institute for a book discussion of Blind Spot by Jon Clifton.
There are a few spots remaining to sign up for in-person mock interviews and resume reviews with employers. Don’t miss…
Join Career Services TODAY  at 12:15 for the Virtual Career Management & Job Search Action Plan Workshop
Career Services has upcoming opportunities available to help you prepare for your future internship, job or graduate school search. 
 Frozen River Film Festival at Page on Wednesday! 
Join Career Services Tuesday, Feb. 6  at 12:15 for the Virtual Career Management & Job Search Action Plan Workshop
Sign up before Tues. 2/6 for your virtual Cardinal Career Prep mock interviews being held February 12 – 14 to…
Outstanding senior nominations will be collected until Friday, February 9, 2024.
Saint Mary’s Currents, the university’s podcast, has returned from hiatus. Listen to the first episode back as we discuss AI. 
Effendi proves Barbie is more than just a pretty face
Chapel of the Angels at 6 p.m. on Tuesday, February 6
Join Career Services Tuesday, Feb. 6  at 12:15 for the Virtual Career Management & Job Search Action Plan Workshop
Sign up before Tues. 2/6 for virtual Cardinal Career Prep mock interviews being held February 12 – 14 to prepare…
Please pray for the repose of the soul of Pat Harrison, ’68
Happy World Day of Consecrated Life! Happy Presentation!
The 2024-2025 holiday schedule is posted on the HR webpage
Sign up before Tues. 2/6 for virtual Cardinal Career Prep mock interviews being held February 12 – 14 to prepare…
Sign up now for the MN Private Colleges’ Job & Internship Fair being held for undergraduate students at the Minneapolis…
Career Services has several upcoming opportunities available to help you prepare your resume for review and mock interviews.
Please pray for the repose of the soul of Mr. J. Allan Anderson
Oldie Moldies Starting Tonight!
12:30 PM – 1:00 PM 
Feb 2-4 the Church Focuses on Consecrated Life
Updated Open Swim Hours! 
Career Services has several upcoming opportunities available to help you prepare your resume for review and mock interviews.
Additional 50% Off Clearance
Volunteer opportunity on the Minneapolis Campus February 6
Get your resume ready during one of our upcoming workshops today.
Founders’ Day 2024 will be celebrated on March 19, 2024 on the Winona campus.
Cardinal Career Prep is being held Feb. 12 – 14. Sign up NOW for mock interviews &/or resume review to…
The Disney College program is currently accepting applications. Attend the virtual info session today & learn more!
Donate gently used shoes to the Winona Clothing Closet! 
This tech tip will show you how to batch edit your assignment dates, saving you time.
Get all the details about how you can spend fall semester studying in London.
Winona educator believes Saint Mary’s graduate certificate enhances leadership skills in and out of the classroom
Get your resume ready during one of our upcoming workshops tomorrow, January 30
Cardinal Career Prep is being held Feb. 12 – 14. Sign up NOW for mock interviews & resume reviews with…
Sign up now for the MN Private Colleges’ Job & Internship Fair being held for undergraduate students at the Minneapolis…
READY™ is a free progressive web-app that provides a clinician designed self-guided program for both mental and physical health. 
On January 30, the Lasallian World celebrates St Mutien-Marie from Belgium
Inclusion and Human Dignity Week Post Conversation
12:30 – 1 PM 
Saint Mary’s Currents, the university’s podcast, has returned from hiatus.
Open Swim Closed 1/26
Interested in buying a t-shirt to support SMU’s Green Bandana Project? Read more to find out how you can purchase…
SAI’s annual Fireside variety show is coming up and you don’t want to miss it!!
Tonight at 6:30 p.m. Career Services is hosting a virtual session for graduate students about career strategies for leveraging your…
Get your resume ready during one of our upcoming workshops next Tuesday, January 30
SAS Analytics Software Solutions is offering a virtual workshop at 11 AM today to help prepare students for career fairs…
Today at 4 p.m. JLL is hosting the VIRTUAL Future of Work Series: Using AI In Your Job Search
Open Mic Night!
Effective January 1, 2024, Saint Mary’s University has increased the mileage rate for university travel.
Sign up now for the MN Private Colleges’ Job & Internship Fair being held for undergraduate students at the Minneapolis…
Career Services is hosting a virtual discussion for graduate students about career strategies for leveraging your master’s degree Thurs. 1/25…
Cardinal Career Prep is being held Feb. 12 – 14. Sign up NOW for mock interviews & resume reviews with…
Career Services has several upcoming opportunities available to help you prepare your resume for review and mock interviews.
The office of Advising is calling all advisers to join in the following events and take note of important dates…
Check out our newly updated Change Password feature to update your password for all systems.
Learn the unique academic, financial, and social details of studying abroad through SMU’s London program.
In this week’s Data Byte from the Office of Institutional Effectiveness, an overview of College tenth day numbers is provided.
READY™ is a free progressive web-app that provides a clinician designed self-guided program for both mental and physical health. 
Arts Opportunity to work at Frozen River Film Festival 
Frozen River Film Festival Showing at Page with Q&A with Emmy and Peabody Award winning director, Diana Jenkins
Cardinal Career Prep is being held Feb. 12 – 14. Sign up NOW for mock interviews & resume reviews with…
2nd annual Sock Drive is this weekend
Registration will begin Tuesday for Cardinal Career Prep mock interview & resume review events being held Feb. 12 – 14.
Career Services is hosting a virtual discussion for graduate students about career strategies for leveraging your master’s degree Thurs. 1/25…
This tech tip will show you how to batch edit your assignment dates, saving you time.
Inclusion and Human Dignity Week Post Conversation
Come to Saint Yon’s field on January 27th to participate the annual Saint Mary’s Nordic Ski Club race!
Bookstore Open this Saturday Jan. 20th
Friday, January 19th 
Join CELT and the Hendrickson Institute for a book discussion of Blind Spot by Jon Clifton.
Thursday January 25th there will be a gallery reception from 5:00-6:30
JLL is hosting Future of Work Series: Using AI In Your Job Search
Sign up now for the MN Private Colleges’ Job & Internship Fair being held for undergraduate students at the Minneapolis…
Thursday, January 18th 
Saturday is Mental Health Awareness Day in SMU Athletics
The deadline for submitting applications is Friday, April 15th.
Cross Country Skiing
Career Services is hosting a virtual discussion for graduate students about career strategies for leveraging your master’s degree Thurs. 1/25…
Saint Mary’s University will celebrate our 2023-2024 graduates in the Schools of Graduate and Professional Programs this Saturday 
Wednesday, January 17th 
New Partnership of the MSW Program of Saint Mary’s with an Organization Utilizing Professional Role-players in the Online Training of…
Come to a fun movie night this Friday at 7 pm in Salvi Lecture Hall!
Open Swim Hours for Spring Semester 
Join us at home athletic events this Saturday to show support! 
Lifeguards Needed!
Nominate your colleagues for awards presented on Founder’s Day by January 23, 2024
Drop-in at the Library TODAY between 3-5pm for RESUME Rev-Up: Unleash Your Professional Blizzard 
Virtual Handshake 101 session Thursday, 1/18 from 11:45 – 12:30 p.m.
Tuesday, January 16th 
Tenzin Lobsang was interested in pursuing an advanced degree in nurse anesthesiology long before she entered the program at Saint…
Bookstore closed
Cross Country Skiing
Do you know how many students live on campus at the Undergraduate College?
Please join the McCabe family as they come together to honor and celebrate the life of Lindsay — husband, father,…
January 15th – January 19th 
Ban The Boring with The Other Mentalist!
The winter months bring the flu, COVID-19, and respiratory syncytial virus (RSV). Here is what you need to know to…
Please join in praying for Demetrio Tomas
Saint Mary’s will celebrate our graduates in the Schools of Graduate and Professional Programs on Saturday, Jan. 20, 2024 at…
RESUME Rev-Up: Unleash Your Professional Blizzard drop-in at the Library on Tuesday 1/16 between 3-5pm to rev up your resume.
There will be a meeting held on Thursday, Jan. 11th at 4:20PM to discuss the plans for choral and instrumental…
SGPP – Lunch Prior to Theresa Flores’ Presentation 
Early Alert has kicked off for the Spring 2024 semester.
A volunteer opportunity on January 9 at the Minneapolis campus
It’s time to place your textbook order with your Campus Bookstore!
The Fitzgerald Library will have new hours starting spring semester 2024.
Interim Director of Music Programming 
Visitors on campus this weekend 
Traci Arends has assumed the role of Sr. Director of Curriculum & Instruction
Saint Mary’s and Sisters’ Camelot distribute food to the local community 
Lunch and Learn with Dr. Antar Salim on January 23 at Minneapolis campus 
Register for our next CharacterPlus Webinar on January 9th, 3:30 pm Central Time with Dr. Kristen Pelster. 
It’s time to place your textbook order with your Campus Bookstore!
Come check out the Sales at the Bookstore!
Our partnership with Sharecare ends on 12/31/2023. Redeem rewards by 12/31/2023
We made the paper!
Please join in praying for continued innovation and growth for our university
Please join in praying for continued innovation and growth for our university
Please join in continued prayers for our Lasallian Family
WFS Sweet Treats 
Please join in praying for continued innovation and growth for our university
Gostomski Fieldhouse Winter Break Hours
In the third week of Advent, we reflect on Saint John Baptist De La Salle’s Meditation on our own actions.
Please join in praying for continued innovation and growth for our university
WFS Sweet Treats December 20th
Check out what wellness resources are available to you while you’re on break! 
Please join in praying for continued innovation and growth for our university
Stop in and check out our Clearance Sale!
A few reminders for the end of the semester from your Campus Bookstore
Please join in praying for continued innovation and growth for our university
The SGPP Psy.D. Program formally invites you to Save the Date for our 2024 Colloquium!
Applications close 12/17 for the Metropolitan Council Internship Program. Over 90+ paid winter & summer internship opportunities available in the…
Complimentary 100-year anniversary of Band Shell Calendars
Emily Heydon C’16, M’17, C’23 comes from a family of teachers.
Thank you for coming out to Santa’s Workshop!
Mark your calendars for spring Cardinal Career Prep mock interview & resume review events Feb. 12 – 14
Visit the Bookstore Dec. 12-14 for 20% off select items.
In the second week of Advent, we reflect on Saint John Baptist De La Salle’s Meditation on how we have…
Back by popular demand, Sustainability Club will be hosting a FREE Swap Event December 16th from 12-6pm and December 17th…
WFS Sweet Treats December 20th
Reminder to Winona faculty about test pick up during finals week. 
Please pray for Br. Stephen Markham 
Remember to return your books before leaving for Christmas break.
A reminder about Saint Mary’s site subscription to The Chronicle of Higher Education
Spanish Mass will be offered at 12:15 in STM Chapel this Tuesday in honor of Our Lady of Guadalupe
Faculty and staff are invited to participate.
Congratulations to SGPP students graduating today from the Deloitte Future of Work Institute
WINC (Wellbeing in Nature and Community) will be helping us host this event and offering some mindfulness tips and exercises.
Prayers are invited and welcome for the repose of the soul of Mr. Lindsay McCabe M’98 and the comfort and…
Back by popular demand, Sustainability Club will be hosting its FREE Swap Event December 16th from 12-6pm and December 17th…
Please join us for a bonfire on Friday, December 8th, from 5:45-6:45 in front of the ice arena! 
Visit the Bookstore Dec. 12-14 for 20% off select items.
Hanukkah Begins Tonight
Veterans Affairs will provide funding to cover up to two years of graduate studies for some programs
Canvas Course Access
A busy weekend on campus
Open Swim Closed on 12/7
Join a Special Agent & Recruiter from the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) for an info session on Th. 12/14…
Join the Smithsonian National Museum of African American History & Culture Info Session Mon. 12/18 to learn about the Robert…
Lamb Weston will be hosting a virtual information session to get to know them as a company and their summer…
The Hormel Institute, University of Minnesota,  is now accepting applications for the SURE (Summer Undergraduate Research Experience) internship program.
NACDD Public Health AmeriCorps is hosting a Virtual Info Session today at 2 p.m. RSVP to receive link on Handshake.
Please pray for Lindsay McCabe and family
Reward yourself for your hard work! Come by from 10AM to Noon on Study Day for free coffee, hot chocolate,…
College Against Cancer Club’s No Shave November fundraiser has ended, and it is time to announce the results!
Do you know how many international students are enrolled at the University and from which countries?
Please join us for a bonfire on Friday, December 8th, from 5:45-6:45 in front of the ice arena! 
Please pray for the repose of John Sabados, ’73
Do you like to fix things? Do you have things that need to be fixed? Help us find out if…
Friday, Dec. 8 at 12:15 p.m. in Saint Thomas More Chapel with Fr. James Burns
Faculty and staff are invited to join the seniors at the gathering on December 6.
Timeline and changes to the 24-25 FAFSA – Free Application for Federal Student Aid
In the first week of Advent, we reflect on Saint John Baptist De La Salle’s Meditation on What We Have…
Presentation highlighted the implications of Machine Learning (ML) and Artificial Intelligence (AI) in the business domain at Federal Government Symposium
Inspired by Mother Mary’s journey, our Lessons & Carols program ranges from the reflective to the triumphant featuring the concert…
The university has a policy requiring prior approval before items are posted on campus bulletin boards.
Applications due Friday, December 8
Saint Mary’s Partners with Sister’s Camelot for food distribution
Faculty and staff are invited to join the seniors at the gathering on December 6.
PIE YOUR HALL DIRECTOR & FREE SAINT MARY’S STANLEY CUP RAFFLE
Please pray for Robin Thelen, Mother of Tony Thelen B’11
Faculty and staff are invited to join the seniors at the gathering on December 6.
Eating Contest and De-Stress!
Come show off your musical talents at tonight’s Open Mic Night!
The Minnesota Conservatory for the Arts and Cotter Schools present: A Holiday Celebration of the Arts, Dec. 7-9, at the…
Help Donate to the SMU Co-op Pantry!!!!
Self Care Give Away and FREE Beats Studio Pro!!!!
The Office of Institutional Effectiveness is pleased to release the 2022-2023 University Fact Book.
Come get your navy and white apparel for Homecoming Week!
The Metropolitan Council will be hosting a virtual information session regarding their winter and summer internship programs December 5 at…
Free shirts and a performance from Free Couch Society!
Homecoming is here!!!
The last day for tutoring and mentoring appointments is Friday Dec. 8
Only a few spaces remain for our annual service trip! 
This tech tip will walk you through updates Canvas made to Discussion boards.
NACDD Public Health AmeriCorps is hosting a Virtual Info Session Dec. 6 at 2 p.m. RSVP to receive link on…
The Metropolitan Council will be hosting a virtual information session regarding their winter and summer internship programs December 5 at…
Nominate your fellow employee by November 28th
Annual Teddy Bear Toss set for Saturday, Dec. 2
The Heroic Vow
New items have been added to our Clearance Rack!
Please consider taking the Community Health Improvement Plan survey
Army Civilian Careers invites you to participate in a virtual session on federal resume writing & navigating USAJOBS website tomorrow.
This tech tip will walk you through updates Canvas made to Discussion boards.
Deadline is November 30th
Open Swim 
Nominate your fellow employee by November 28th
In appreciation of another successful year, join us for a Christmas celebration.
Come support your fellow Saint Mary’s students, staff, and faculty members in what is sure to be an amazing night…
Psychology of Success students have created a location for all mental health resources in Winona. 
Donations accepted to the Cardinal Co-op Food Pantry for breaks.
Open enrollment is your annual opportunity to add, change, or remove benefit enrollment elections for the next plan year. 
The Hormel Institute, University of Minnesota,  is now accepting applications for the SURE (Summer Undergraduate Research Experience) internship program.
The Conservation Corps of Minnesota & Iowa will be hosting two virtual info sessions next week. Sign up for link.
Holiday Week Reminder from the Payroll Office
Army Civilian Careers invites you to participate in a virtual session on federal resume writing, navigating USAJOBS website.
In appreciation of another successful year, join us for a Christmas celebration.
We have gifts for your list!
Employees should report any conflicts of commitment before December 31, 2023.
Tolkien discussion & info about this spring’s travel-study course
The annual undergraduate exhibition reception will be Thursday, November 16 4:30-6:00 pm
In appreciation of another successful year, join us for a Christmas celebration.
The Metropolitan Council has opened applications for 90+paid winter & summer internship opportunities in the Twin Cities. Applications close 12/17.
The Office of Advancement would like to share that Saint Mary’s will be participating in the Minnesota Give to the…
Answer 12 online questions from around the globe for a chance at prizes!
The Conservation Corps of Minnesota & Iowa will be hosting two virtual info sessions next week. Sign up for link.
Find your place in the federal government is a virtual information session being offered by Handshake for anyone curious about…
Exploring a career in Agriculture? CHS, Inc. is hosting a virtual info session for you to learn about the organization…
Join Mayo Clinic Dept. of Lab. Medicine & Pathology representatives as they discuss career opportunities within clinical labs and where…
In appreciation of another successful year, join us for a Christmas celebration.
Andy shared GSS’s experience building wetland data and programs at the Alaska Geosummit 
This Thursday, November 16, everyone is invited to join the Student Activities Committee for a Toner Takeover!
Find the International Center & win!
November 6th until November 30th 
All students, faculty, and staff are invited to attend this exciting evening of music, held this year in the Page…
If you plan to enroll for an internship for credit next semester you will want to complete the Internship Registration…
The Conservation Corps of Minnesota & Iowa will be hosting two virtual info sessions next week. Sign up for link.
Join Mayo Clinic Dept. of Lab. Medicine & Pathology representatives as they discuss career opportunities within clinical labs and where…
RSVP to learn about the Teach for America Ignite Fellowship program, a paid, remote part-time opportunity for students interested in…
Find your place in the federal government is a virtual information session being offered by Handshake for anyone curious about…
Exploring a career in Agriculture? CHS, Inc. is hosting a virtual info session for you to learn about the organization…
Invite to employees from WFS
In appreciation of another successful year, join us for a Christmas celebration.
The Saint Mary’s Benefit Committee will be raising money for Dr. Minnerath this year.
Special activities and fun prizes will be available during the week. 
Join the Minneapolis Fun Squad for the annual Thanksgiving Potluck and Prayer Service
Celebrated this weekend
In appreciation of another successful year, join us for a Christmas celebration.
Saint Mary’s announces 2024 Hall of Fame Class
Come Join skate Club for an evening of Broomball and open skate.  
An encounter with Lasallian experts. 
Find your place in the federal government is a virtual information session being offered by Handshake for anyone curious about…
Learning Opportunity 
This student-hosted movie night will help with your de-stressing needs. Come join in with your friends for this fun flick!
Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia’s own fraternity band, the Oldie-Moldie All-Stars, is the featured group for tonight’s Live and Loud.
In appreciation of another successful year, join us for a Christmas celebration.
Leonard, Wachter land MIAC soccer honors
RSVP to learn about the Teach for America Ignite Fellowship program, a paid, remote part-time opportunity for students interested in…
Join Mayo Clinic Dept. of Lab. Medicine & Pathology representatives as they discuss career opportunities within clinical labs and where…
McNally lands 3rd straight All-MIAC honor
The Nest and J1 systems will be unavailable Monday from 4am-10am due to an upgrade.
The Conservation Corps of Minnesota & Iowa will be hosting two virtual info sessions next week. Sign up for link.
In appreciation of another successful year, join us for a Christmas celebration.
Hurley, Sessler pick up MIAC soccer accolades
Celebrating November: Native American Heritage Month 
Would you like to learn more about the membership of the Undergraduate College Student Senate?
Celebrate National STEM Day today with cookies and other treats.
No Shave November Fundraiser with Colleges Against Cancer!
This weekend, Saint Mary’s Theatre Program will present readings from the works of Flannery O’Connor.
Join the Minneapolis Fun Squad for the annual Thanksgiving Potluck and Prayer Service
If you plan to enroll for an internship for credit next semester you will want to complete the Internship Registration…
12:15 – 12:45 
Join Sustainability Club at its monthly member meeting in Aquinas 208 at 6pm tonight!
Please join in praying for Alan Jay Wolfe, father of Dr. Rustin Wolfe
In appreciation of another successful year, join us for a Christmas celebration.
Deadline is November 10th
Rimstad named MIAC Defensive POW
Celebrate National STEM Day on Wednesday, November 8 with cookies and other treats.
Open enrollment is your annual opportunity to add, change, or remove benefit enrollment elections for the next plan year. 
EdTech proudly presents Virtual Happy Hour! 
GSS Executive Director Andy Robertson attended the second-ever Church Properties Conference at the University of Notre Dame
In appreciation of another successful year, join us for a Christmas celebration.
Open enrollment is your annual opportunity to add, change, or remove benefit enrollment elections for the next plan year. 
Lunch Bunch – Minneapolis 
November 6th – November 30th 
Just for Fun!
Diploma Frames are on Sale!
Applications are now open for the Citizens League Capitol Pathways Spring Internship Program. Deadline to apply is November 27.
Students & alumni are invited to attend the Government & Non-Profit Career Fair tomorrow at the U of M Twin…
All are welcome to hear from Dr. Rachelle Schultz on the future of healthcare! 
Please read here for the minutes from the October 31, 2023 meeting of the Winona Campus Student Senate
Tickets for Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia’s annual variety show, Blue Angel, are now available for purchase online!
Effective Friday, November 3, 2023, students, faculty, and staff will not be permitted to bring outside beverage containers to any…
Wiley has completed the migration of all Wiley-marketed program pages from their microsite to our main website.
Saint Mary’s University of Minnesota and the Basilica of St. Mary joins Notre Dame Club of Minnesota for annual Hesburgh…
Collaboration between Bloomington Police Department and Saint Mary’s School of Health and Human Services
Information Table: Today, 11:30-1:30
Father Burns announces that all faculty and staff will receive an additional courtesy half-day off to celebrate Thanksgiving
The Winona Brass Band, directed by professor emeritus Dr. Janet Heukeshoven will perform Sunday afternoon at 4 PM in St….
If you are currently seeking an opportunity, don’t miss the virtual Negotiation Tactics workshop Wed. 11/1 at 12:15 p.m. RSVP…
Students & alumni are invited to attend the Government & Non-Profit Career Fair next Friday, 11/3 at the U of…
Centre of Love is a Lasallian ministry in Kenya, founded by three Saint Mary’s alumni. Join us November 7 as…
Heitzman named MIAC Offensive POW
Reception for the exhibit of Lisa Truax in the Lillian Davis Hogan Gallery
The Annual Undergraduate Art Exhibition is looking for student artwork!
Come hear from Dr. Rachelle Schultz (President/CEO of Winona Health) on the future of healthcare
In honor of All Souls’ Day the Concert Choir & Band with Campus Ministry invite you to the Candle and…
Alumni band Free Couch Society is the featured artist for Live and Loud on November 2nd.
The Marketing and Communications Department is thrilled to announce the successful web improvement implementation for all SGPP webpages
Information Technology will be hosting a Cybersecurity event on the Winona campus.
Wednesday, November 1 | 12:15 p.m. | Saint Thomas More Chapel
Tuesday, October 31 in the Student Success Center at 8am
Students & alumni are invited to attend the Government & Non-Profit Career Fair next Friday, 11/3 at the U of…
Students act as attorneys in hotly contested case that mirrors an actual trial
RSVP by Friday, 10/27 for Women’s Leadership Dialogue Luncheon being held on Monday, October 30.
Last Tuesday, Saint Mary’s University welcomed former Minnesota Viking, Super Bowl Champion, speaker, and author, Mr. Matt Birk 
SMU School of Education and Noyce Scholar attend Midwest Annual Robert Noyce Conference
If you are currently seeking an opportunity, don’t miss the virtual Negotiation Tactics workshop Wed. 11/1 at 12:15 p.m. RSVP…
Thank you to everyone who attended, brought your students or helped to make our 10th Annual Career & Internship Fair…
Come learn more about St. John Baptist de La Salle
The Bookstore will be open this Saturday, Oct. 28!
Friday, October 27th
Come show off your musical talents at tonight’s Open Mic Night!
Start of Term Checklist
Sustainability Club invites you to save your pop cans from Halloween weekend and bring them to Yons or Bro Leo…
Do you know how many degrees the University conferred in 2022-23?
Stop by the 10th annual Career & Internship Fair today anytime between 10:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. in the Winona…
With a new system, registration looks a little different this semester. 
Have you placed your book order yet?
Decorative gourds from the community garden are for sale.  All sales go towards the improvement of the community garden.
Rhoda Olsen will share her leadership insight from experience at Great Clips and Land O’ Lakes 
As a member of the Saint Mary’s Alumni Board, and Chair of the Service Committee, I want to personally invite…
Sign up today to attend the 10th annual Career & Internship Fair tomorrow anytime between 10:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m….
Freshman & Sophomores Fastenal is hiring for their Co-op Program. A fantastic, paid, opportunity! Learn more at the Fastenal table…
The Mayo Clinic Department of Laboratory Medicine is offering a Careers Webinar Today at noon.
Today, Saint Mary’s welcomes Super Bowl Champion, Speaker and Author Matt Birk as he visits with coaches, students, and the…
Adopt-a-Highway Cleanup
Find Out How on Thursday @ 12:15
Tuition Exchange scholarship applications are available for 2024-2025 academic year
In order for us to have pre-printed nametags and enough materials, please have students sign up to attend the 10th…
Saint Mary’s University students are now eligible to apply to the Southern Minnesota Medical Examiner’s Office Forensic Science Internship Program.
The Mayo Clinic Department of Laboratory Medicine is offering a Careers Webinar Tomorrow at noon.
Sustainability Club invites you to save your pop cans from Halloween weekend and bring them to Yons or Bro Leo…
Saint Mary’s celebrates the impact of its many benefactors.
Please join in praying for Suzanne Jones Gibbs, mother of Dr. Beth Seebach
Come join Saint Mary’s Student Activities Committee and campus clubs and organizations for our annual Trunk or Treat!
In Honor of LaSallian Day of Service: Tie Blanket Service Project
Scott Song B’10 grew from an undergraduate international student, unsure and a little overwhelmed in a new country, to working…
Winners of the golden ladles!
Today marks the beginning of Advising season for Spring 2024!
In order for us to have pre-printed nametags and enough materials, please have students sign up to attend the 10th…
Join us!  A tradition of food and fun!
Please donate blood on 10/24
Registration opens soon for SGPP and College
The Mayo Clinic Department of Laboratory Medicine is offering a Careers Webinar Tuesday, October 24 at noon.
Saint Mary’s University students are now eligible to apply to the Southern Minnesota Medical Examiner’s Office Forensic Science Internship Program.
Freshman & Sophomores Fastenal is hiring for their Co-op Program. A fantastic, paid, opportunity! Learn more at the Fastenal table…
Volunteer as an individual or with a group to help our neighbors in the Winona community.
Please join in praying for Christian Brothers University
DOWR seminarian and cellist John Paul Bickerstaff is the featured artist for Live and Loud on October 19th. 
Interested in becoming Green Bandana certified? Sign up for our first training on October 25th!
Here are the selected Scholars from the Kabara Institute!
After meeting with your advisees, make sure you give them Registration Clearance! 
The Office of Admissions asks that students and faculty on campus be welcoming to prospective students and their families during…
Gundersen Health System will be holding a virtual Summer Research Fellow Info Session TODAY at noon. RSVP to receive link.
Stop by the Career Services table today between 12:15-1:30 pm to learn about the Career & Internship Fair & RSVP…
Please encourage students to sign up to attend the 10th Annual Career & Internship Fair. Over 90 organizations will be…
Mission Conversations
Come hear from Dr. Thomas Harter (Gundersen) on ethical issues in post-COVID-19 healthcare
The university recently received approval from the Higher Learning Commission (HLC) of its Quality Initiative (QI).
40 students attended Monday’s MFT practicum fair, which included 28 sites from across the Twin Cities and 50+ mental health…
Viewing the course offering in “The Nest” 
If you are or once were a first-generation college student, sign up to join Zeta Delta, a national honors society…
Over 90 organizations will be attending the 10th Annual Career & Internship Fair next Wed. Please encourage students to sign…
Join the Writing Center & Career Services for the virtual Advanced Resume Writing Workshop – today at 12:15 p.m. on…
Central and South American students and educators learn about AI’s current and future implications
Information Technology will be hosting a Cybersecurity event on the Minneapolis campus
Gundersen Health System will be holding a virtual Summer Research Fellow Info Session on Wednesday, October 18 at noon. RSVP…
Equity In Athletics Disclosure Act Report 2021-22
Join the Writing Center & Career Services for the virtual Advanced Resume Writing Workshop – tomorrow at 12:15 p.m. on…
As the new academic year gets underway, please remember to honor and abide by our exclusive partnership contracts.
Winona campus flu vaccination clinic will be on Thursday, October 19 from 7:30 a.m. to 10:30 a.m. in the Common…
SMU faculty and staff are invited to a chili dinner hosted by the Religious Sisters of Mercy.
Photos of the event and thank you for all those who contributed food and cash for Community Bridging Food Shelf…
We will be sending books back to the publishers soon!
Please join in praying for Ruth Ann Kronberger, Grandmother of Lynette Johnson
Obituary for Kathleen A. Robinson
Future Health Professionals Club is hosting a blood drive on 10/24
Beginning to look for a job or internship? Attend the Internship & Job Search Strategies workshop on TODAY at 1…
The 10th annual Career & Internship Fair is being held Wednesday, Oct. 25 from 10:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. in…
The Very Rev. James P. Burns, IVD, Ph.D., invites the Saint Mary’s community to pray for all affected by the…
Join the Writing Center & Career Services for the virtual Advanced Resume Writing Workshop – Tuesday, October 17 at 12:15…
Beginning to look for a job or internship? Attend the Internship & Job Search Strategies workshop on Thurs. 10/12 at…
Please join us today from 2:00-6:00pm in the Makerspace for a Drop in and Destress event!
Books adoptions are due Friday, Oct. 27th
Come to the Bookstore and see what’s new!
Would you like to learn more about the SGPP student body?
Come hear from Dr. Thomas Harter (Gundersen) on ethical issues in post-COVID-19 healthcare
Dr. Gideon Nyakundi, senior manager of clinical engineering at the University of Maryland Medical System, will tell you he was…
Decorative gourds from the community garden are for sale.  All sales go towards the improvement of the community garden.
Join Career Services for the virtual Advanced Resume Writing Workshop – Tuesday, Oct. 10 at 12:15 p.m. on Zoom
Beginning to look for a job or internship? Attend the Internship & Job Search Strategies workshop on Thurs. 10/12 at…
World Mental Health Day is recognized for global mental health education, awareness, and advocacy against stigma surrounding mental health. 
A tradition of food and fun!
On Tuesday, Oct. 24, 2023, Saint Mary’s will welcome Super Bowl Champion, Speaker and Author, Mr. Matt Birk for the…
Today is the deadline for students to submit the Career Services Needs Assessment 
Please join in praying for peace in the Middle East
Campus student and fraternity Vice President Patrick Derleth is the featured artist for Live and Loud on October 12th.
Join us tonight in Figliulo Recital Hall – “The Fig”- at 6:30 PM
Please pray for the mother of Dr. Tricia Klosky
Sandbar Storytelling Festival and the Minnesota Marine Art Museum present “Water Stories” by Kao Kalia Yang. Student discount enclosed, only…
The mission: to educate students and the community that violence is a problem everywhere, help is available, there is hope…
We will be sending books back to the publishers soon!
Donate gently used cold weather gear to the Saint Mary’s Clothing Closet! 
The Red Lot parking lot will be closed on Thursday, October 12th, 2023 at 6am.
Minneapolis Flu Vaccination Clinic Monday, October 9 from 10:15 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. in LaSalle Hall 206
Come audition a song or two for Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia- Eta Nu Chapter’s annual variety show!
Please join us Wednesday, October 11th from 2-6:00pm in the Makerspace for a Drop in and Destress event!
You ae invited to write a thnk you note to a MN legislator for their support of the Mn State…
Join us in Figliulo Recital Hall – “The Fig”- on Monday, October 9th, at 6:30 PM
Join us in the La Salle Chapel on Fridays from 9-3
Haunted Walk on campus October 27-29!
Saint Mary’s students in the Pre-law Society attended the University of Minnesota’s Law Fair Monday, October 2
Students in Business and Communication majors and minors network with industry professionals at “Cardinal Connections”
Join Career Services for the virtual Advanced Resume Writing Workshop – Tuesday, Oct. 10 at 12:15 p.m. on Zoom
Character in Action Service Project – The Sandwich Project
Watch the 2023 State of the University Address
October is Domestic Violence Awareness Month. To raise awareness, wear purple on Thursday, October 19th. 
Tonight, the IT department will update the wireless in multiple buildings on the Winona Campus.
This week is National Voter Education Week.  
Saint Mary’s University School of Education offers character webinar series. 
Photographers on Winona campus for marketing enrollment collaterals
Come check out all the new things in the Bookstore this week!
Information Table Thursday, October 5th
Join us, today, for the State of the University Address
Open Swim Closed on Tuesday 
WFS event – just for fun!
 Socktober Drive.  All socks collected will be donated to Catholic Charities in Minneapolis
Decorative gourds and miniature pumpkins from the community garden are for sale. All sales go towards the improvement of the…
Singer-songwriter Aidan Jones is coming to Saint Mary’s as the featured artist for Live and Loud on October 5th.
Read through to learn more about technical support at Saint Mary’s!
Read the news for October 1-7
The deadline to submit the Career Services Needs Assessment has been extended one more week. 
Join Career Services for the virtual Advanced Resume Writing Workshop – Tuesday, Oct. 10 at 12:15 p.m. on Zoom
Criminal Justice Alumni meet and greet on Thursday, October 5th from 6:00 to  8:00 in the President’s Room in Toner.
The official band of Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia- Eta Nu Chapter will be holding their annual Family Weekend concert once…
Visit the Bookstore during Family Weekend
On Monday, October 2nd, Saint Mary’s University will host our Inclusion and Human Dignity speaker for the first semester: Pastor…
Please have students submit the Career Services Needs Assessment to help us understand how we can best support their career…
Stop by the Career Services table on the Plaza today between 12-1:30 pm for games, prizes & to learn about…
Mark your calendars for the annual flu vaccination clinics on the Winona and Minneapolis campuses
Please join the conversation
Date Correction and Obituary
Arts Opportunity
Character in Action:  Writing Letters of Encouragement
September 27 is the Feast Day of Blessed Bro Scubilion
September is National Suicide Prevention Month and serves as a time to raise awareness about suicide prevention.
Do you know how many seminarians are studying at Immaculate Heart of Mary Seminary?
Twin Cities Information
Study at Lasallian Universities Center for Education (LUCE) at the Generalate in Rome
The MSW program awarded three students the Sauer Family Foundation Stipend for the first time this Fall 2023.
Join the Green Bandana Project as they work to break the stigma surrounding mental health with their walk/run fundraiser this…
SSF23 (Sandbar Storytelling Festival) is adding a new and improved event to their festival this year, a Community Storytelling Competition. 
Stop by the Career Services table on the Plaza today between 12-1:30 pm for games, prizes & to learn about…
Please have students submit the Career Services Needs Assessment to help us understand how we can best support their career…
Adopt-a-Highway cleanup is scheduled for October 20.
Deadline is November 10th
Repose of the soul of Dr. Bill Crozier
Stop by the Career Services table on the Plaza tomorrow between 12-1:30 pm for games, prizes & to learn about…
Career Services is 
Sign up to serve our local community!
Conversation on Ex Corde Ecclesiae
Join us for the State of the University Tuesday, October 3, 2023
September is National Suicide Prevention Month and serves as a time to raise awareness about suicide prevention.
Read through to learn more about technical support at Saint Mary’s!
News for September 24-30
Tomorrow, Tuesday, from 8:30 AM – 10:30 AM 
Today is the last day to sign up for mock interviews & resume reviews being held on campus Wed. 9/27.
Jewish Day of Atonement 
Come to the Bookstore and see what’s on Sale!
SMUMN will be migrating to a new wireless system at the Winona Campus.
The Winona-Dakota Gathering, Homecoming & Wacipi will take place Saturday, September 30 through Sunday, October 1 at Unity Park. All…
Sign up today for Cardinal Career Prep mock interview & resume review event being held next Wed. 9/27 to prepare…
Stop by on your way to lunch in Toner to buy a jar of honey from our biology club members….
“De La Salle’s ‘Twelve Virtues of a Good Teacher’: Still Relevant Today?”
Info table – Friday, Sept. 22
Stop by the plaza between 9-10 Friday morning for some Bloedow’s donuts and coffee, served by the Christian Brothers
SGPP students help us understand your career development needs by submitting your survey today.
Sign up today for Cardinal Career Prep mock interview & resume review event being held next Wed. 9/27 to prepare…
Join Career Services for the Virtual Networking Strategies Workshop Tomorrow at 12:15 p.m.
Sister Norma Pimentel speaks on the immigration crisis in America.
Conversation on Ex Corde Ecclesiae
Want to know more about the undergraduate College student body?
Join Career Services for the Virtual Networking Strategies Workshop this Thursday, September 21 at 12:15 p.m.
Stop by the Career Services table on the Plaza today between 12-1:30 pm for games, prizes & to learn about…
Join Career Services for High Impact Resumes – Today at 5 p.m. in Toner 9. Get your resume ready to…
Staff Waiver for Pool 
The theme that received the most votes for the SMU Benefit Dance is the 80s! The theme will tie in…
Check out the new Student Engagement Calendar.
Davis named head women’s hockey coach
Reception on Thursday September 21st for Nathan Van Brunt’s Exhibition, Transience
Join Career Services for High Impact Resumes – Tuesday, September 19 at 5 p.m. in Toner 9
Sign up today for Cardinal Career Prep mock interview & resume review event being held on Wed. 9/27 to prepare…
Join Career Services for the Networking Strategies Workshop this Thursday, September 21 at 12:15 p.m.
Undergraduate students & recent alumni are invited to attend the MN Prviate Colleges’ Fall Recruiting Fair in Mpls. on Tue….
Future Health Professionals Club is hosting a blood drive on 9/29
Join us Saturday for apple picking and juice making with the Christian Brothers!
Dr. Liz Gulliford will visit both campuses on Sept. 19 and Sept. 20 
Read the news for Sept. 17-23
Open Swim Hours for Fall Semester 
Walk to MDP for coffee and pastries. 
9/15/23 – 9/23/23
The Sandbar Storytelling Festival (SSF) is adding a new and improved event to their festival this year, a Community Storytelling…
Please encourage students to sign up for Cardinal Career Prep mock interview & resume review event on Wed. 9/27 to…
Join Career Services for High Impact Resumes – Tuesday, September 19 at 5 p.m. in Toner 9
Brother Elzear Council #5202 of the Knights of Columbus is pleased to host the Knights’ Pilgrim Icon Program through next…
Two new service teams are being established to provide shared administrative support for the president’s cabinet and for the provost’s…
Come hear Dani Mengel and Luke Puffer perform at Live and Loud this upcoming Thursday!
The Jewish Holiday Commemorating Creation
Hispanic Heritage Month ranges from September 15th – October 15th. 
Minneapolis Big 4 Information Session | Accounting Bachelor & Master’s Students
Come get 10% off your Saint Mary’s apparel at the Bookstore on Friday, Sept. 15!
Keep up with all the Cardinal athletic action 
Want to know more about the new early alert system?
Biology club is opening their annual honey sale! Sales are open to faculty and staff through the 17th before opening…
When they talk about “shooting for the stars,” the music students at Saint Mary’s University really mean it…
The office of RISE is looking for students and staff to volunteer for Family Weekend.
Deadline is November 10th
Celebrate Constitution Day this September 17th by visiting your Saint Mary’s Libraries.
Just for fun!
SMU Students to Spend the Fall 2023 Semester Abroad
Please remember to honor our exclusive partnerships with key vendors
Please encourage students to sign up for Cardinal Career Prep mock interview & resume review event on Wed. 9/27 to…
It’s Saint Mary’s Night at the American Swedish Institute. RSVP to join your colleagues for happy hour after work on…
Undergraduate students & recent alumni are invited to attend the MN Prviate Colleges’ Fall Recruiting Fair in Mpls. on Tue….
Just for fun!
Interactive, Virtual Pilgrimage
It’s Saint Mary’s Night at the American Swedish Institute. Join your colleagues for happy hour after work on the patio…
SGPP students help us understand your career development needs by submitting your survey today.
Sign up today for Cardinal Career Prep mock interview & resume review event on Wed. 9/27 to prepare for your…
Winona students help us understand your career development needs by completing the Career Services Needs Assessment today.
Read the news for September 10-16
Brother Elzear Council #5202 of the Knights of Columbus will be holding its fall All-Council Meeting and Exemplification this Thursday…
Pastor Ward to speak at Saint Mary’s
This post provides an overview of how to use the Canvas Inbox email feature. 
New Faculty & Staff ID cards are now available at the Office of Campus Safety
Refugee and Immigrant Panel Presentation – Winona 
Recruiters from Google will be offering 2 resume workshops for those interested in applying for internships & full-time opportunities.
Please pray for Joan C. Kintzi
Come hear SMU senior perform at Live & Loud!
Minneapolis Campus: Friday, September 8th at 1:15 PM 
Future Health Professionals Club is hosting a blood drive on Sep. 29
The World Can Be Your Classroom
It is that time of the semester to start submitting early alerts for students you are concerned about! 
Mass at 12:15 PM in the University Center 
Pre-service elementary educators are learning how to teach literacy with an evidence-based approach.
Join Career Services for the Interviewing Strategies workshop Thursday, September 14 at 5 p.m. in Hendrickson 120. Sign up to…
Download and view information about supporting this incoming class of students. 
On Monday, October 2nd, Saint Mary’s University will host our Inclusion and Human Dignity speaker for the first semester: Pastor…
Just for fun!
A representative from Study Abroad Italy (SAI) will be on campus
SGPP students help us understand your career development needs by completing your survey today.
Career Services is hosting a virtual discussion for graduate students about career strategies for leveraging your master’s degree Wed. 9/13…
Fall Semester General Theatre Auditions are being held Tuesday through Thursday, September 5-7 starting at 6pm in the Page Theatre
A community focused on teaching
A warm welcome to our international undergraduate students.
COVID-19 cases continue to increase in Minnesota
The World Can Be Your Classroom
Registration is now open for Cardinal Career Prep mock interview & resume review event being held in the Gym on…
It’s Saint Mary’s Night at the American Swedish Institute. Join your colleagues for happy hour after work on the patio…
The Disney College program is currently accepting applications for Spring 2024. Attend one of the virtual information sessions to learn…
News for September 3-9
Join us for cake and conversations after mass. 
Know a student you would recommend Saint Mary’s University to?
 The Metro Bus Pass is available for purchase today! Passes will allow users to ride until December 31st
Deadline to apply is Monday, October 2nd.
Come hear Live & Louds first Performer, September 7th, 9 p.m. Toner 16
On Sept 2 we remember the Brother Martyrs of the French Revolution
Please join in praying for Shuaib Moalim
On Friday, September 8th, join us for the opening of the academic year mass and celebrate the Nativity of the…
Many organizations begin their search process for spring & summer interns in the fall. Check out the many information sessions…
The Disney College program is currently accepting applications for Spring 2024. Attend one of the virtual information sessions to learn…
Events 8/26-9/3
Stop by to get your Jenzabar questions answered this Friday. 
All are welcome to come pray for the intentions of our Saint Mary’s community
The use of marijuana on campus is not permitted.
Please read here for  our plans to address the heat this weekend.
Father Burns expresses his gratitude to everyone who assisted in the move-in process last week
Registration opens on Tuesday for Cardinal Career Prep mock interview & resume review event being held in the Gym on…
Turnitin Tips and Tricks
Come join us for fun, games, live music and more as we have our annual Family Weekend on September 30th!
Join us for our annual Eucharistic Procession & Blessing of Campus – Tuesday, September 5 at 8 p.m.
Sign up here for our annual day retreat on September 9
The MarComm (Marketing & Communication) team is here to help you. 
The Winona Undergraduate students are ready to start the school year strong! 
Check your student roster and make sure to take a look at your waitlist! 
Old school PLC centered around pedagogy
Recording and Talk
Please join in praying for Dick Wieser, ’68. 
Welcome to Dr. Heather Nickel
We’ve updated our Google distribution lists for staff and faculty! Read the full article for more details.
Please pray for the family of Br. Bede Baldry, FSC
News for August 28-September 2
The Writing Center has moved to 103 Saint Mary’s Hall.
Please pray for the mother of Prof. Larry Price
What Comes Next?  For any faculty/staff, their families or friends!
The Writing Center is offering a workshop for College faculty on creating a syllabus statement about A.I. for your classroom. 
There will be a truncated course schedule at the undergraduate College on Tuesday, August 29th.
Cardinal Excellence Fund golf outing is drawing near
Students should connect to tutoring, peer mentors, and the writing center using Penji (app store or web.penjiapp.com)
Applications are now being accepted from SGPP students to participate in the Deloitte Future of Work Institute. Please invite your…
Reminder: You must not cover interior windows in your office
It’s time to place your textbook order with your Campus Bookstore!
The FGI Retreat at Alverna Center provided new FGI students an opportunity to get to know one another better
Vlazny Hall Personnel Have Moved
The Writing Center is offering a workshop for College faculty on creating a syllabus statement about A.I. for your classroom. 
All are welcome to attend this Mass to pray for the upcoming academic year
The SMU Red and White Alumni Meet will be held out by Saint Yons, August 26th at 10:30am! SMU cross…
De La Salle University in cooperation with International Association of La Salle Universities (IALU) present La Salle Sustainability Lectures
Learn more about who went and some of their experiences
Generative AI’s influence continues to expand as it finds applications in diverse fields, from creative content generation to data analysis…
For Fr. Mike Cronin
View our schedule for prayer and devotions for the 2023-2024 academic year
Bookstore Back to School Information
Step by step instructions on how to view your advising roster in J1 Web. 
Yellow lot closing for Welcome Weekend
Repose of the soul of Fr. Mike Cronin
Faculty are encouraged to participate in the following Welcome Weekend events…
Effective August 28th the commuter (Brown) lot will be moving
Students at the university will have new wellness resources available to them this year.
Eta Nu of Phi Mu Alpha is excited to announce that Blue Angel 2023 will be November 17th and 18th! 
Sr. Agnes Mary Graves, RSM
Join in giving thanks for the profession of new Christian Brothers
Please pray for Fr. Mike Cronin
Help us recruit alumni to come to Winona on Wed. 9/27 to conduct mock interviews with our undergraduate students.
A Book Club for Pastor James E. Ward’s book: Zero Victim. *We have 7 free books remaining in Minneapolis and…
Dr. Michael Bagby, Director of Music Programming 
Character In Action: Making Toys for Animals at the Humane Society
Please pray for the repose of Elizabeth Rooney
Murray steps down as women’s hockey coach
Events 8/4-8/12
Please pray for the repose of Elizabeth “Bette” Barron
Place your order for Textbooks now!
Foley takes part in NCAA College Basketball Academy
Please RSVP for the University Convocation.
Billing due dates for the fall semester have been adjusted.
Join us for a book club in anticipation of Pastor James E. Ward Jr.’s visit to Saint Mary’s campuses. Sponsored…
The group visited 3 wetland sites to gain field experience
You’re Invited!
Men’s Hockey To Tour Italy
Vlazny Hall Personnel Have Moved
Call for all those interested in hosting an event or gathering during Welcome Weekend.
Volunteers needed to help with Welcome Weekend 2023.
It’s time to place your textbook order with your Campus Bookstore!
Reminder: You must not cover interior windows in your office
The University Convocation is set for August 22, 2023.
Fano has Cardinal men’s basketball on the rise
Events 7/24-7/30
Service Project on Twin Cities Campus
Athletic partnership with UA, Game One extended
Please pray for the repose of the soul of Tracy McRae
Community Health Worker (CHW) certificate now offered at Saint Mary’s University of Minnesota
The Nest will go live at noon today!
Cardinal Excellence Fund golf outing is drawing near
Events 7/16-7/23
The first Nursing Blessing Ceremony will be held on Sunday, August 27, 2023 at 4 pm at the Chapel of…
Deadline is August 20th, 2023
Come join in the fun!
Are you needing to highlight an event, communicate an important deadline, or share information with your coworkers? Saint Mary’s Today…
Prayers are welcome for the repose of the soul of Mary Flad
Leo and Morgan teach local students about the importance of pollinators.
To help ensure a successful Go Live, we will delay three days and will Go Live on Thursday, July 20.
Events 7/8-7/15
Join us on the Minneapolis Campus for a summer refreshment with your colleagues, Wednesday, July 12, 12:30-1:30 pm.
Join the Winona Fun Squad and Mark Your Calendars
This post provides a brief tutorial on how you can use Panopto Video in Canvas to record and embed a…
Character in Action:  Writing Letters of Encouragement
All are welcome to join our CELT Teaching and Learning series Workshop #2 to learn how to invite and engage…
Update on Arts Co-Curricular Program 
See how you can get involved this year! 
Since Monday, July 3 and Tuesday, July 4 are University holidays, if possible, please submit timecards by the end of…
Saint Mary’s has reached a new milestone and has officially entered the Go Dark period for the university’s Student Information…
Summer Student Success Chats continue through August 9th 
Fresh food is now available on the Minneapolis Campus.
Another busy week on campus! 
Final reminder-the portals Go Dark at noon on Friday.
Student Success Center at the Winona Campus is collecting clothing donations for the Clothing Closet. 
Prayers are invited for the repose of the soul of Elaine Schultz, sister of Barb Slaggie
Bookstore Hours for Reunion Weekend
It’s Saint Mary’s Night at the American Swedish Institute. Join your colleagues for happy hour after work on the patio…
Inclusion and Human Dignity: Juneteenth
Please pray for the success of the the presbyteral assembly for the Archdiocese of Saint-Paul Minneapolis
We are entering the final week of our CAMS Student Information System. Read more about how this affects you.
We have a busy week of distinguished guests on the Winona Campus! 
With a recent $4 million estate gift commitment, Saint Mary’s has raised close to $35 million in transformational gifts during…
Bookstore Hours for New Student Orientation
Cardinal student-athletes shine in the classroom
This week we welcome many outside guests to campus and incoming students!
Please pray for Jerome Palmer, father of Becky Merchlewitz
Need assistance negotiating job & internship offers? Career Services has posted the Negotiation Strategies workshop for you to access in…
It’s Saint Mary’s Night at the American Swedish Institute. Join your colleagues for happy hour after work on the patio…
A significant gift of more than $800,000 will be used to replace both the baseball and softball infields with artificial…
Student Success Center is collecting clothing donations for the Clothing Closet. 
Fall semester registration begins Wednesday, June 7th at 8:00 a.m.
This tech tip will walk you through how to create multiple assignments for multiple courses at once.
Professor Ratajczyk served as a panelist on generative artificial intelligence with the Minnesota Private College Council
Look who’s attending and learn more!
Please pray for Mary Flad
Place your order for textbooks now before the student portal Goes Dark!
All are welcome to attend our CELT Teaching and Learning series of workshops that are offered this summer beginning June…
Are you looking for ideas for structuring, facilitating, and assessing inclusive and dynamic classroom discussions that facilitate student learning?The Faculty 
Please help welcome visitors that are hosting their private external events on the Winona Campus this summer and make them…
Saint Mary’s University faculty and students presented new researach at the Minnesota Psychological Association’s 87th Annual Conference
Please join in prayer for John C. Calabrese, ’66
Deadline is June 1, 2023
Ride the Metro Bus at  Discounted Rate now until August 15th! 
Ali French, Peyton Berg, Riley Hall & Heather Nordlund all earned All-MIAC honors
Dr. Signe Nestingen receives MPA Outstanding Graduate Faculty in Psychology Award at the 87th Annual Conference
Dr. Jerome Shih is Awarded for Distiguished Leadership at MPA Annual Conference
It’s just 31 days until we Go Dark! Read more to find out how you will be affected.
Career Services & the School of Business & Technology partnered to host our first in-person SGPP Networking Night
For Joyce Burford and family
Adopt-a-Highway cleanup
Mason Coyle and Addison Hochevar were named All-MIAc, while Riley Bauman was an honorable-mention pick, the MIAC announced Monday
Come check out some of the new Clearance items.
Becki Warnock was part of a group which presented a breakout session on April 3, 2023.
Prayers are invited for the health of our alumni
Please join in praying for Joyce Burford, mother of Ann Merchlewitz
The deadline to RSVP for the SGPP School of Business & Technology Networking Night is noon tomorrow, May 10. Please…
Do you want to have your event featured on the First Five Weeks calendar?
Cardinal softball will open MIAC Tournament play at St. Olaf on Thursday at 4:30 p.m.
How to batch edit assignment dates in Canvas
Whether you are home for the summer or staying on campus, Career Services are available to support you.
RSVP to join SGPP School of Business & Technology students, alumni, faculty & staff for a networking event on the…
A look back at results and news from baseball, softball, and track and field
The funeral for Javon Kunkel will be held on Monday, May 8, 2023
Saint Mary’s community members present at “Women in the Lasallian Family: Moving Forward Together as a Source of Transformation” training…
Whether you are home for the summer or staying on campus, Career Services are available to support you.
Please pray for alumnus Mike Cannon, ’73
Bookstore Summer Hours
For Javon Kunkel and his family 
Faculty as you finish the school year and begin to look ahead to fall planning, please consider the following ways…
Hosted by the Student Success Center from May-August on Wednesdays at 11 am in Aquinas 310 or via zoom. 
Profesor Ratajczyk shared his vision of AI’s impact on Minnesota’s workforce with the Minnesota Department of Employment and Economic Development.
Faculty as you finish the school year and begin to look ahead to fall planning, please consider the following ways…
A look back at results and news from baseball and track and field
Ask legislators to invest more in State Grant funding for students at all colleges
Career Services & the Office of Advancement is partnering with the SGPP School of Business & Technology to host a…
Gostomski Fieldhouse Summer Hours
Countdown to College is looking to fill four more counselor positions for summer 2023. 
You’s Invited to a Special Virtual Prayer Service to celebrate Religious Brothers Day May 1
Entrepreneurs First, an ecosystem of support organizations in which Kabara is a partner of, hosted a successful expo to engage…
Faculty and staff are invited to the lunch with graduating seniors today.
Riley Hall is one of  175 college students recognized for their nonpartisan democratic engagement work in 2022
Career Services & the Office of Advancement is partnering with the SGPP School of Business & Technology to host a…
See below for information on how Minnesota residents can order free COVID tests
Books are due Thursday, April 27!
Three members of the SMU Gamma Epsilon Chapter of Beta Beta Beta Biology Honor Society presented their research projects at…
Biology students a given Beta Bbeta Beta research grants. 
A day connecting entrepreneures and entrepreneurial support organizations at Cascade Meadow. 
Join Dr. Lucia Pawlows as she facilitates conversation about this months podcast on AI and how this impacts us in…
Class of 2023 let us know what is next for you by completing your First Destination Survey today.
If you plan to enroll for an internship for credit this summer you will need to complete the Internship Registration…
The Saint Mary’s Community Garden is once again available for all Saint Mary’s faculty, staff, and students. 
We received many donations and many people were able to take home items for free! Thank you to all who…
It is that time of the academic year when the University celebrates the commencement of graduates at the Winona Undergraduate…
Please read here for the minutes from the April 18, 2023 meeting of the Winona Campus Student Senate
The following parking lots to be closed Friday, April 28th, 2023.
Saint Mary’s faculty and staff gathered on Thursday, Apr. 20 for Cardinal Update Live
Dr. Heidi Dahlmann was recently awarded an Organic Syntheses, Inc. grant to support an undergraduate researcher in summer 2023.
Your one stop-shop to donate your gently used items and take any items you need from others who have donated!
A look back at results and news from baseball, softball, tennis, and track and field
Remember to return your books before leaving campus!
One simple thing you can do for the environment
Your one stop-shop to donate your gently used items and take any items you need from others who have donated!…
Gostomski Fieldhouse Finals Week Hours
With the end of another fiscal year upon us, please review for important deadlines and information.
Come check out the greenhouse space, including the conservatory and meet our new poison dart frogs see their vivarium and…
Environmental impact of the food you choose
The Red Lot parking lot will be closed on April 27th at 7 am
If you would like to declared a phased out major, you must do so by Friday. 
On Saturday, April 29, Saint Mary’s University will celebrate nearly 230 graduates during its Spring 2023 Commencement on its Winona…
Annually, more than 400 undergraduate alumni and their families come back to the Winona campus to celebrate Saint Mary’s Reunion…
Class of 2023 let us know what is next for you by completing your First Destination Survey today.
If you plan to enroll for an internship for credit this summer you will need to complete the Internship Registration…
Don’t delay: Get COVID-19 medications right away.
Reduce your transportation impact
Need a science general education course? Take Current Scientific Issues online over the summer
Open Swim Pool Schedule
Reducing single-use plastics
Six students along with Computer Science faculty attended the Midwest Instruction and Computing Symposium located on the campus of UNI
April is Sexual Assault Awareness Month
The 2023-2024 holiday schedule is posted on the HR webpage
Ice Cream Social for employees
Your one stop-shop to donate your gently used items and take any items you need from others who have donated! 
Class of 2023 let us know what is next for you by completing your First Destination Survey today.
It’s about improvement!
The U.S. Office of Personnel Management (OPM) and the Federal Executive Boards (FEBs) present the Federal Executive Board Campus Series…
All Minneapolis faculty, staff, and students are welcome to join in prayer. 
Student Affairs presents awards to students, faculty, staff for 2022-2023
SMU VS HAMLINE MAY 2nd! 
The CELT 2023 Teaching and Learning Series is back!  Register NOW for the Virtual Kick-off Event May 6th!
Join us in-person or virtually for Cardinal Update Live, 12:15-1:15 p.m. on Thursday, Apr. 20.
April 17-22 is Earth Week! Look for simple tips here each day this week.
A look back at results and news from baseball, softball, men’s tennis, and track and field
Volunteers are needed for Saturday’s SMU Track and Field Invitational
Please read here for the minutes from the April 11, 2023 meeting of the Winona Campus Student Senate
Remember to return your rental books before you leave.
Ice Cream Social for Winona Campus employees
From Monday April 17 to Thursday April 20, the Student Success Center will be open late!
Music lovers one and all, mark your calendars for a celebration of music you don’t want to miss!
Topic: Connecting To Your Purpose–Reflecting back to move forward led by Sarah Haugen
Deadline is June 1, 2023
Ben Borash (class of 2020) and Dr. Ben Pauli (biology) recently published a paper in Human Wildlife Interactions
Celebration of Scholarship program is available.
Do you know how many students from each U.S. state are enrolled for Spring 2023 in online coursework through the…
Join us Apr. 27 (Winona Campus) and May 3 (Minneapolis Campus) as we celebrate the spring semester.
Marty Momsen (’97) to speak at the next Science Seminar. “STEM the Tide: A career of exploration” on Wednesday, April…
The U.S. Office of Personnel Management (OPM) and the Federal Executive Boards (FEBs) present the Federal Executive Board Campus Series…
JobsHQ | Rochester Post Bulletin | Careerforce | Southeast Service Cooperative Job Fair Thursday in Rochester
A special Music Alumni Weekend is planned for April 15-16 — in recognition of Dr. Janet and Eric Heukeshoven and their…
Join us Apr. 13 (Winona Campus) and Apr. 18 (Minneapolis Campus) as we honor the significant contributions of our colleagues.
Renowned storyteller, performer, teacher, and artist Clare Murphy will kick off the Sandbar Storytelling Festival’s second season.
he Sandbar Storytelling Festival is once again offering a storytelling circle in Winona.
We are thrilled to announce the winning name for our new portals coming in July 2023.
The Red Lot parking lot will be closed on April 15th at 7 am
Bring your appetite and enjoy FREE hot dogs for 1st 100 fans at Cardinals DH v. St. Olaf!
A look back at results and news from baseball, softball, and track and field
April 10 – April 16, 2023 is NCAA DII Week
Please  read here for information on the results of the elections for yhe Student Senate Executive Board
Due to the Easter Monday holiday, all payroll items for the pay period ending on Friday, April 7 must be…
Please join in prayer for the repose of the soul of Julie (Dobbelman) Swedberg, ’96
If you are a student seeking an internship for this summer or next fall or spring semester there are hundreds…
Join the Writing Center & Career Services for the virtual Advanced Resume Writing Workshop – Tonight at 6 p.m. on…
Time is running out-vote for your favorite portal name.
Gostomski Fieldhouse Easter Break Hours
Spencer Wanlass and Matt Isaia presented at the 2023 UPCEA Annual Conference in Washington D.C.
After Easter Break is over, it’s time to focus and prepare for finals. Learning Services, the Writing Center, the Library,…
Bookstore Hours for Easter Break
Mark your calendar for Celebration of Scholarship!
Ben Borash (class of 2020) and Dr. Ben Pauli (biology) recently published a paper in Human Wildlife Interactions
A look back at results and news from baseball, tennis, and track and field
The Nursing Department invites all to its inaugural Nursing Blessing Ceremony this summer.
Saint Mary’s own David Kwon, assistant professor of theology, has had his first book, Justice after War: Jus Post Bellum…
Expansion to SNAP Benefit Enrollment & Recertification Expiring Soon – Apply now if qualified
Dr. Ray Faber to speak at the next Science Seminar. “A Century with Herring Gulls” on Wednesday, April 5th, AH…
Students, Staff, and Faculty are ALL invited to vote for your favorite portal name.
Preservice teachers from the School of Education attend Minnesota Education Job Fair
Get to know the dedicated staff who make up our great team!  
Celebration of Title IX to take place April 3-5
The Saint Mary’s Benefit Dance Committee would like to invite you to the silent auction!
In honor of Women’s History Month, this week’s data byte highlights the presence and contributions of women at the University.
If you’re blue and you don’t know where to go on April 1, mark your calendar and plan on going…
Submit your application to be a C2C Summer Camp Counselor for 2023! Counts for CE Credit! 
Please pray for our Holy Father, Pope Francis, as he recovers from a respiratory infection
The annual spring variety show “Gaslight” is back. Come support your seniors!
The Nu Delta chapter of APO Theatre Honor Society Announces Auditions for a Campus Wide Variety Show to Celebrate the…
Interested in a career in Healthcare? Attend the Careers in Healthcare Panel at 12:15 today in Aquinas 200.
Resources now available in Handshake to assist you with interviewing 24/7.
Join the Writing Center & Career Services for the virtual Advanced Resume Writing Workshop – Wednesday, April 5 at 6…
Please join the Integratus Capstone 499ON learning community for rich conversation about interfaith community.
Music lovers one and all, mark your calendars for a celebration of music you don’t want to miss!
Sign up for the blood drive April 4th at redcrossblood.com and enter code SMU
Winona featured on John McGivern’s Main Streets
“Converging Roads” conference will take place on Saturday, April 1, 2023 at the University Center.
SAGA presents Safe Space training on Thursday!
Open Swim Pool Schedule
Please join in prayer for the recovery of Ms. Sandy Conway, sister-in-law of Saint Mary’s Board Chair, Mr. Terrance Russell
The Dance Repertory Company’s production of MCA Celebrates 50 Years of Arts Excellence opens this Thursday, March 30.
A look back at results and news from baseball, fastpitch softball, and men’s/women’s tennis
Becoming a C2C Counselor is a PAID opportunity to get CE Credit! 
Saint John Baptist De La Salle’s Reflection on the 5th week of Lent
The MN Education Jobs Fair is being held at Huntington Bank Stadium March 30. 
The University of St. Thomas is hosting a career fair open to our students & recent alumni Wed. 3/29 from…
Congratulations to Maggie Newhouse, 2023-2024 Student Senate President
Sign up for the blood drive April 4th at redcrossblood.com and enter code “SMU”
Members of the SMU and La Salle University in Bogota Discuss the 12 Virtues
Senior Art and Design Exhibition Opening
Register now for Pod and Ponder: Flow this Friday March 24, 12:15-1:15 PM CST
A Careers in Healthcare Panel is being held next Tuesday, March 28 at 12:15 in Aquinas 200. RSVP on Handshake!
Career Services is hosting a virtual discussion for graduate students about career strategies for leveraging your master’s degree tonight at…
Read below for the minutes from the Student Senate meeting held on March 21, 202
Do you know what the cohort retention rate is at the Winona Undergraduate College?
Bookstore Open this Saturday March 25th
Career Services is hosting a virtual discussion for graduate students about career strategies for leveraging your master’s degree Wed. March…
The MN Education Jobs Fair is being held at Huntington Bank Stadium March 30. 
Saint Mary’s students have the opportunity to participate in several upcoming career fairs to find internships & full-time opportunities.
There is still room on the bus for students to attend the Hendrickson Forum.
Celebration of Title IX to take place April 3-5
On Saturday, March 18, Bro. Juan Manuel Professed hid final vows in Bogotá, Colombia
Career Services is hosting a virtual discussion for graduate students about career strategies for leveraging your master’s degree Wed. March…
Open Swim Pool Schedule
The form to submit a new portal name will close on Friday March 24th.
Anthony collects 2nd All-American honor
A look back at results and news from men’s/women’s tennis and men’s basketball
Day 9
Mike Lovorn, Ph.D., dean of education, has announced he will step down from his position next month.
Day 8
FOURTH SUNDAY OF LENT
Career Services is hosting a virtual discussion for graduate students about career strategies for leveraging your master’s degree next Wed….
For those still needing a cultural engagement (CE) activity before graduation or the end of the semester, the following opportunity…
Come hear from Dr. Richard Sharp (Mayo Clinic) on emerging ethical issues in AI in healthcare
X/C skiing equipment check out for Saturday’s SMU ski race 
Day 7
Anthony tabbed NABC 2nd-Team All-American
Saint Mary’s University alumni to share their perspective on the last 30 years and more as entrepreneurs , artists, and…
Saint Mary’s University presented awards to one faculty member, two staff members, and two outstanding seniors at its annual Founders’…
Registration is open for our annual day of service
Day 6
Please read here for information about elections to the Student Senate Executive Board
If you need a summer gig and place to live, look no further than SMU! 
Anthony lands 3 more post-season honors
Join in celebrating 100 days until we “Go Dark”.  Enjoy dark chocolate and help name our new portals.
Today is the last day to register to attend the MN Private Colleges Undergraduate Job & Internship Fair this Thur….
Whether you are a seasoned professional hoping to move up, change careers, or find your first job, attend the virtual…
Join Cardinals Connecting Cardinals in recognizing the importance of philanthropy at Saint Mary’s University.
Day 5
Interested in learning more about being a C2C Summer Camp Counselor? Join un in Toner 9 at 12:15pm
Open Swim Pool Schedule
Registration closes at 8 a.m. Tuesday for Saint Mary’s Mock Interview Day being held on Friday, March 17. Don’t miss…
Whether you are a seasoned professional hoping to move up, change careers, or find your first job, attend the virtual…
Sign up by Wednesday for MN Private Colleges Career Consortium Undergraduate Job & Internship Fair this Thur. 3/16 from 9…
Happy Hour Chat and Chow: Chatting about things that matter with people that matter!
This tech tip with walk you through how to add comments to the library through the Speedgrader.
Please join in prayer for Jean Nicoletti, mother of Br. Augustine Nicoletti, FSC
Saint Mary’s Day of Giving is a 24-hour giving challenge where we come together to support our students. 
Come learn about the new Data Science major and minor!
March 20th: Danielle Brown will present on the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops’ pastoral letter against racism. 
Dr. Jennifer Cochran Biederma, Biology, recently presented research at the Driftless Area Stream Restoration Symposium
Day 4
The 3 M Open (golf tournament) has new opportunities for college students to volunteer.
“Converging Roads” conference will take place on Saturday, April 1, 2023 at the University Center.
Prayers are requested for the repose of the soul of Bud Paape
Lindauer, Young land MIAC honors
Day 3
Day 2
Please join in prayer for Ella Jasmary Page, daughter of alums Joey Page, EdD, and EdD Cand. Rachel Page. 
Day 1
Reflections for the Season by Saint John Baptist De La Salle
Come see the new items that arrived just in time for Spring
Danielle Brown will present on the United States Catholic Bishops’ pastoral letter against racism. It will be a noontime luncheon….
Join the Christian Brothers, SAC, Campus Ministry, and our entire SMU community in a week of Lasallian events! 
Saint Mary’s Mock Interview Day is being held on March 17 from 8:45AM – 12:30 PM.  Sign up now!
Reschedule will occur
Join us in preparing for the feast of the foster father of Jesus and patron of the Christian Brothers
Elementary Education majors welcomed to Arcadia Middle School
Calling all advisers? Do all your students have their CE Experieinces complete? 
We invite you to learn more about our premier program and how we continue to enhance the student journey building…
Saint Mary’s Mock Interview Day is being held on March 17 from 8:45AM – 12:30 PM.  Sign up now!
Faculty please encourage students to sign up for Mock Interview Day being held on March 17 from 8:45AM – 12:30…
Get ready for the Mock Interview event & future interviews by attending the Interviewing Strategies workshop TONIGHT at 6 pm….
This past Saturday, March 4, 130 plus student, faculty, and alumni took part in the Doctoral Research Symposium 
The Saint Mary’s University of Minnesota community will celebrate Founders’ Day on Tuesday, March 14, 2022 on its Winona Campus.
Have a great idea for a product or business? Enter it into this pitch contest! 
Saint Mary’s Seniors Score High on High-Impact Practices Section of NSSE
Due to weather, this event is cancelled. 
Danielle Brown will present on the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops’ pastoral letter against racism. It will be a…
Danielle Brown will present on the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops’ pastoral letter against racism at the Toner Lounge
Winona faculty please encourage your seniors to RSVP for the 1st Annual Cardinal2Career Senior Seminar this Saturday, March 11 from…
Saint Mary’s Mock Interview Day is being held on March 17 from 8:45AM – 12:30 PM.  Sign up now!
Get ready for the Mock Interview event by attending the Interviewing Strategies workshop Wed. 3/8 at 6 pm. Sign up…
Open Swim Pool Schedule
Join us on Apr. 20 for the next Cardinal Update Live
It is officially advising season! Registration for Fall 2023 will begin on March 27.
Nordlund named MIAC Softball Player of Week
Jim Wilson, CFO of Mayo Clinic, will discuss the financial state of the healthcare industry
Join hundreds of other students for Day at the Capitol — a powerful day of advocacy for the MN State…
Saint Mary’s Mock Interview Day is being held on March 17 from 8:45AM – 12:30 PM.  Sign up now!
The MN Private Colleges Career Consortium has rescheduled the Undergraduate Job & Internship Fair to Th. March 16 from 9…
Get ready for the Mock Interview event by attending the Interviewing Strategies workshop Wed. 3/8 at 6 pm. Sign up…
Tickets are now on sale for The Dance Repertory Company presents: MCA Celebrates 50 Years of Arts Excellence, March 30-April…
Calling Faculty & Staff for an Open Conversation about Campus Climate/Sustainability Efforts
Data informs improvement efforts
Closed One Day for Staff Development Day
Hear from three local women entrepreneurs! 
Save the Date for Retirement and Employee Service Recognition Celebrations
A look back at results and news from baseball, softball, tennis, and basketball
Paulson, Goettelman land MIAC honors
Mark your calendar
The Department of Fine and Performing Arts will stage the delightful musical tribute “Sondheim on Sondheim” March 16-18 in the…
Raheem Anthony was named Offensive POW; Ziegler, Buysman land MIAC post-season honors
Final reminder – Voicemail messages from our old phone system will be deleted today.
Faculty please encourage students to sign up for Mock Interview Day being held on March 17 from 8:45AM – 12:30…
Join Career Services for the virtual Advanced Resume Writing Workshop – Wednesday, March 1 at 6 .m. on Zoom
Reminders in Canvas as the term ends
“Converging Roads” conference will take place on Saturday, April 1, 2023 at the University Center.
A look back at results from basketball, tennis, track and baseball
Please join in praying for the family of Jenny Kuderer, Institutional Research Analyst
Take time for spiritual reading with the reflections of Saint John Baptist de La Salle
Saint Mary’s Mock Interview Day is being held on March 17 from 8:45AM – 12:30 PM.  Sign up now!
Join Career Services for the virtual Advanced Resume Writing Workshop – Wednesday, March 1 at 6 .m. on Zoom
Results for 2022
Gostomski Fieldhouse Spring Break Hours
Due to weather, this event is cancelled. 
Due to the weather forecasted for Thursday, February 23rd, today’s advising session will be virtual!
Intramurals pickleball and spike ball tournaments on March 18th at 2 pm in the RAC
If you are currently seeking an opportunity, don’t miss the virtual Negotiation Tactics workshop tonight at 6pm.
Join Career Services for the virtual Advanced Resume Writing Workshop – Wednesday, March 1 at 6 .m. on Zoom
Saint Mary’s Mock Interview Day is being held on March 17 from 8:45AM – 12:30 PM.  Sign up now!
Join us for spirited community in the Cardinal Club this Thursday at 7 PM
Do you know what percentage of graduates at the undergraduate College from the Class of 2021 are employed in a…
Last day to vote for Outstanding Seniors 2023
Do you have all of your textbooks?
SMU basketball teams have 5 named Academic All-District®
If you are currently seeking an opportunity, don’t miss the virtual Negotiation Tactics workshop Wed. 2/22 at 6pm.
Career Services will be hosting the 1st Annual Cardinal2Career Senior Seminar on Saturday, March 11 from 9 a.m. – 1:30…
Saint Mary’s Mock Interview Day is being held on March 17 from 8:45AM – 12:30 PM.  Sign up now!
Please join in praying for the repose of the soul of MaryAg Trauscht ’50
Anthony earns pair of weekly honors
Ash Wednesday Mass will be celebrated at 12:15 in the Saint Thomas More Chapel
X/C Skiing
See here for more information on the election process for the Student Senate President
Celebration of Title IX Schedule Changes
It’s a 5 p.m. WHITE OUT!!
Wear white to show your support for the men’s basketball team at the game today.
Saint Mary’s Mock Interview Day is being held on March 17 from 8:45AM – 12:30 PM.  Sign up now!
Anne Pryor, Saint Mary’s alumna, and a top globally recognized LinkedIn Authority, known as the “LinkedIn Whisperer” to offer Advanced…
If you are currently seeking an opportunity, don’t miss the virtual Negotiation Tactics workshop Wed. 2/22 at 6pm.
Open Swim Pool Schedule
Please join in praying for the repose of the soul of LA Aux. Bishop David G. O’Connell
Please join in prayer for a friend of the university.
A look back at results from hockey, basketball, tennis, track and field & fastpitch softball
The Cardinal Dance Team is performing this Saturday, February 18 during halftime at the Cardinals’ basketball games.
Finalist voting for the Outstanding Seniors 2023
Sign up now for the MN Private Colleges’ Job & Internship Fair being held for undergraduate students at the Minneapolis…
If you are currently seeking an opportunity, don’t miss the virtual Negotiation Tactics workshop Wed. 2/22 at 6pm.
Join us in prayer as we begin the Lenten season
Please join in praying for the repose of Bob Thomas
Please join in prayer for the shooting victims at Michigan State
Saint Mary’s celebrating 50 years of Title IX
Please join Pat Calton and colleagues for lunch and conversation.
A few slots are still open today for a 15 minute meeting to have your resume reviewed on a space…
Dr. Janet Heukeshoven is both conducting the Minnesota Intercollegiate Honor Band and presenting a session for Future Music Education Majors…
Mary Speaks: “The Story of Mary Through the African American Experience”
Cardinal hockey hosting Sock Drive
Info Table (w/ treats): Thursday, Feb. 16
Tuesday, February 28, 2023,  10:30 a.m., Brother Louis Hall 124
Students sign up for a 15 minute meeting to have your resume reviewed by local HR professionals tomorrow.
5pm in Toner Lounge, hear the Klosky’s story! 
Come get the books you need before they are gone.
We wanted to share the following communication about tuition, which is being shared with students in Wednesday’s TODAY newsletter.
Saint Mary’s University’s Department of Fine and Performing Arts is inviting the public to an evening of one-act plays.
Open Swim Pool Schedule
A recording of last week’s Cardinal Update Live can now be viewed online
Resources now available in Handshake to assist you with resume development  24/7.
Students sign up for a 15 minute meeting to have your resume reviewed & receive feedback from local HR professionals…
Sign up now for the MN Private Colleges’ Job & Internship Fair being held for undergraduate students at the Minneapolis…
On your mark, get set, ski!!!
Please join in praying for the repose of the souls of Robert A. Janka ’61
Stop by to learn more about famous, historical Black icons – while enjoying some relaxing paint time! 
Submit your interest form today!
This tech tip will walk you through how to navigate the bug currently in discussion boards.
On Campus, Tuesday, Feb. 14
Celebration of Kindness – Chartwells
SMU Alum Blessed Bro James Miller is commemorated Feb. 13 
A look back at results from hockey, basketball, tennis, and track and field
Up to 75% off on select items while supplies last
Wear your favorite team gear 
Resources now available in Handshake to assist you with resume development  24/7.
Please join in praying for the repose of the soul of Jefferey Bump, cousin of former board member Mike Slaggie
Calling all advisers! Join us this spring semester for four events hosted by the Office of Advising and New Student…
Prepare for the Mock Interview Day & future interviews by attending the Interviewing Strategies Workshop tonight at 5 p.m. in…
Beginning a job search? Attend the VIRTUAL Job Search Strategies workshop tonight at 5:30 pm. to get on track.
Students sign up for a 15 minute meeting to have your resume reviewed & receive feedback from local HR professionals…
Anne Pryor, Saint Mary’s alumna, and a top globally recognized LinkedIn Authority, known as the “LinkedIn Whisperer” to offer 2…
Please join in praying for the health of Sal Muscat, father of alum, Lorraine Vassallo ’14, M’16
Please pray for healing and recovery for friend of the university, Lee Piepgrass
Finalists Named for the Outstanding Senior Award 2023
Do you know how many doctoral degrees the University has conferred since the University started offering doctoral-level programs?
Are you good at Super Smash Bros? Do you like Mario Kart? Come to the PMA Video Game Tournament and…
Prepare for the Mock Interview Day & future interviews by attending the Interviewing Strategies Workshop tomorrow at 5 p.m. in…
Students sign up for a 15 minute meeting to have your resume reviewed & receive feedback from local HR professionals…
Come to Toner to write a note to someone you care about on Campus. 
If you missed our in-person Fall Faculty Conference “Drawing From Our Collective Wisdom”, now is your chance to experience it…
Check-out the opportunities and submit your interest form today!
Anthony, Paulson land MIAC weekly honors
Are you looking for a job for the 2023-24 school year?
Saint Mary’s Mock Interview Day is being held on March 17 from 8:45AM – 12:30 PM.  Sign up now!
Join Career Services for the Interviewing Strategies workshop Wednesday, February 8 at 5 p.m. in Toner 9. Sign up to…
Students sign up for a 15 minute meeting to have your resume reviewed & receive feedback from local HR professionals…
Sign up now for the MN Private Colleges’ Job & Internship Fair being held for undergraduate students at the Minneapolis…
Beginning a job search? Attend the VIRTUAL Job Search Strategies workshop on Wed. Feb. 8 at 5:30 pm. to get…
Saturday, February 11, at 9 AM in the Chapel of Saint Thomas More
Open Swim Pool Schedule
Dr. Christine Beech will present on Character and Business
Weekly Tech Tip
A look back at results from hockey, basketball, tennis, and track and field
Sign up now for the MN Private Colleges’ Job & Internship Fair being held for undergraduate students at the Minneapolis…
Join Career Services for the Interviewing Strategies workshop Wednesday, February 8 at 5 p.m. in Toner 9. Sign up to…
Anne Pryor, Saint Mary’s alumna, and a top globally recognized LinkedIn Authority, known as the “LinkedIn Whisperer” to offer 2…
Beginning a job search? Attend the VIRTUAL Job Search Strategies workshop on Wed. Feb. 8 at 5:30 pm. to get…
Women’s cross country lands USTFCCCA academic honor
Come into GR70, write an empowering, caring card, and make a difference in the lives of those who may need…
There’s someone new to learn about, every day!
Students sign up for a 15 minute meeting to have your resume reviewed & receive feedback from local HR professionals…
Saint Mary’s Mock Interview Day is being held on March 17 from 8:45 AM – 12:30 PM. Sign up opens…
Save the Dates! CELT, FDC, instructional technology, and the library will continue Chat and Chow on our Winona campus. 
Andrew Scott discusses the national debt limit on the latest episode of Saint Mary’s Currents.
Local HR professionals will be on campus to review student resumes & provide feedback on February 15 from 11:30 a.m….
Sign up now for the MN Private Colleges’ Job & Internship Fair being held for undergraduate students at the Minneapolis…
Join Career Services for the Networking with Impact & Professional Communication Workshop this Wed., February 1 at 5 p.m. in…
Tuesday, January 31 is the last day to submit nominations for employee awards
Come play in an ultimate frisbee tournament, hosted by the MUTS, for a chance to win some gear and merch!
Nominate Someone Today!
The next Winona Chamber Network Night, Thursday, Feb. 9, will be hosted by Saint Mary’s University
Join Career Services for the Networking with Impact & Professional Communication Workshop this Wed., February 1 at 5 p.m. in…
How to check if your links are correctly validated.
Open Swim Pool Schedule
Please nominate students for Outstanding Senior by Friday, February 3, 2023
Nominate outstanding seniors through Friday, February 3, 2023
Do you want to join the fight against cancer? Come join Colleges Against Cancer this Wednesday, Feb 1st, 7-8 pm…
Join us as we host another event from our “Big Data Business University” speaking series on Wednesday, February 1st, 2023…
As you settle into your courses for the semester, please review good reasons to submit an early alert.
A look back at results from hockey, basketball, tennis, and track and field
Saint Mary’s own Raheem Anthony was highlighted in the Star Tribune this week for his skill on the basketball court. 
Please pray for beloved brother, artist, and sculptor, Brother Jerome Cox, FSC B’60
Three of the Bollig sisters credit Saint Mary’s for preparing them for their careers.
Proud to be a first-generation college student, or are you faculty/staff who was first-gen and want to make a difference?…
33 student-athletes named Academic All-MIAC
Submit nominations for awards by January 31, 2023
When collecting student data, confirm collection methods follow cybersecurity best practices and verify the data is processed and stored in…
Saturday, February 4th at 4 pm
Founder’s Day 2023 will be celebrated on March 14, 2023 on the Winona campus.
Scott Walker, associate vice president for strategic planning, will take over duties as deputy Title IX coordinator
Our university chaplain, Fr. Kevin, will be celebrating Mass for all faculty, staff, and students of our Minneapolis campus in…
And the winner is . . .
Do you know what percentage of students at the Undergraduate College are involved in intercollegiate athletics?
Cardinal hockey hosting 2 Sock Drives
Please join in praying for the repose of the soul of Mary Dowd
Join Dr. Kayte LaBore as she facilitates conversation about this months podcast on a scarcity mindset and how this impacts…
Anthony earns 3rd D3hoops.com weekly honor
Come out to join the sisters of Sigma Alpha Iota in their Music Variety Show, Fireside 2023.
With the new year upon us, we wanted to share a few reminders about our Winona Copy Center processes.
Polzin named MIAC Offensive Player of the Week
Co-Curricular Arts Update
Funeral arrangements have been announced for the mother of Dr. Mark Barber, professor of philosophy
Obituary and Funeral Arrangements for Kathleen M. Barber
Fr. Patrick Mary Briscoe, O.P., alumnus and USCCB appointed preacher to visit Saint Mary’s
Join the boys of Phi Mu Alpha for a poker and pizza night this Wednesday the 25th at 7:30pm
EdTech subscribes to support feature in Canvas available to students, faculty, and staff. 
Open Swim Pool Schedule
Registration for CEF Dinner/Hall of Fame Ceremony is online
A look back at results from women’s hockey, and men’s and women’s basketball
The safety and security of our Minneapolis Campus constituents is important to us. We implemented several changes to our security…
Attend an Information Session
Voice Mail Messages from our old phone system will be deleted on March 1st.
Spring intramurals are starting back up next Tuesday, 1/24 from 9-10 pm in the RAC!
Last day to submit RA applications for 2023-2024
Merchants Bank thanks Saint Mary’s for donating 49 pounds of food to the food shelf.
Prayers are appreciated for the mother of Becky Merchlewitz, who passed away last week. 
Saint Mary’s looks forward to celebrating our 2022 SGPP graduates this coming weekend at Orchestra Hall in Minneapolis. 
Keeley a nominee for Hockey Humanitarian Award
Submit nominations for awards by January 31, 2023
“Things I’ve Seen,” a photo exhibit by Steve Schild, runs Feb. 3 through March 19, 2023, at the Winona Art…
Keep Devices & Software Up to Date
This event will be a casual lunchtime discussion of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s Letter from Birmingham Jail (1963)
Important updates from the HR Team on staffing, reviewing deductions, and new insurance cards
Have a fun idea for a STEM related demonstration? Become a  Demo-er for STEM DAY!
In this episode of Saint Mary’s Currents, Tricia Klosky discusses the psychology of serial killers and why society has such…
Auditions start this Thursday for your group or solo act!
Club Button Design Competition is Underway
Open Swim Pool Schedule
The SMBD committee is looking for beneficiary nominations and more committee members!
The deadline for submitting applications is Friday, April 15th.
This tech tip will show you how to add Turnitin to an assignment in Canvas.
Come celebrate Suzanne Deranek the Senior Associate Director of Admission retirement from Saint Mary’s after 39 years of service!
Cardinals host Special Hockey Day
SAC will be creating childrens care packages on Jan. 16 to donate to the Advocacy Center of Winona
Prayers are invited for the repose of the soul of Kathleen M. Barber, mother of Dr. Mark Barber and mother-in-law…
Chartwells Dining Hours for January 16th
Friday, July 28th 2023 via ZOOM
Do you have a student who has not engaged in your course this week?
Open Swim Pool Schedule
Chartwells Dining Hours for January 16th
with Criminal Justice Club
The following Saint Mary’s University of Minnesota students completed requirements for bachelor of arts degrees in December 2022.
Encourage your students to attend the Career Readiness workshop today at 5 p.m. in Toner 9.
Anthony earns 2nd straight D3hoops.com weekly honor
Anthony named MIAC Offensive Player of the Week
Matthew Winkler presents Edges and Horizons in the Lillian Davis Hogan Galleries.
Encourage your students to attend the Career Readiness workshop on Wednesday, 1/11 at 5 p.m. in Toner 9.
Do you know how many members the Undergraduate College Student Senate has?
January and Feburary Hours
Kirsons representing Latvia at World University Games
Thursday, 1/12, is the last day you can sign up for a S.O.U.L. trip. 
Starting at the Police Academy at age 21, Anna (Taylor) Ciconte made her mark by being elected the first female…
Encourage your students to attend the Career Readiness workshop on Wednesday, 1/11 at 5 p.m. in Toner 9.
A look back at results from men’s and women’s hockey, and men’s and women’s basketball
Today Winona State University is announcing that Scott Sorvaag, Ed.D., has been named dean of their College of Education; he…
Sign up to spend time with the Blessed Sacrament
Are you needing to highlight an event, communicate an important deadline, or share information with your coworkers? Saint Mary’s Today…
Welcome back to campus- the SnowDaze calendar is out now!
Do you know some good leaders on campus? 
We wish you the best of luck on the semester ahead! 
Join SAC in their first big event of the year! 
Please join in praying for the repose of the soul of Don Alsum
Pope Francis has named Rev. Michael John Izen Next Auxilery Bishop of Saint Paul and Minneapolis
Minneapolis Campus Plan Update – Save the Date January 12, 2023 12 p.m.
Students Awarded Scholarships
A Novel Idea has selected their next book for the upcoming discussion on February 23. Join us in reading The…
Place your order for Textbooks now!
Mass in the Saint Thomas More Chapel is at 8 PM on January 8. There will be no 10:30 AM…
Anthony named to D3hoops.com Team of the Week
Please pray for the repose of the soul of Edwin Vargas Pérez, father of Robertolino Vargas Guerrero
Please pray for the repose of the soul of Geraldine Williams Sandolph, grandmother of Myles Sandolph
Please pray for the repose of the soul of our beloved pope emeritus 
Do you have incredible students you work with? Share their names with us! 
The Provost’s Office is pleased to announce some additional leadership changes in Academic Affairs.
Pucci named men’s soccer coach
New Academic Affairs Update and Interim Leadership Announcement from the Provost Office
With our students, staff, and faculty off enjoying winter break, Saint Mary’s Today email will be paused after today. The…
Saint Mary’s Libraries purchased a new off-campus login system (OpenAthens), which launched today.
Holiday Break Bookstore Hours
Payroll and Accounts Payable deadlines for first week of the new year
Gostomski Fieldhouse Winter Break Hours
This post provides 3 helpful and easy tasks that instructors can accomplish in Canvas before the start of the Spring…
Remember to return your rental books!
Buysman, Goettelman land MIAC AOW honors
A look back at results from men’s and women’s basketball
Announcement from Provost Office
The Metro Bus Pass is available for purchase today! Passses bought now will allow transit users to ride from January…
Consider writing a thank you note to your legislator for the MN State Grant program.
Remember to return your books before leaving for Christmas break.
Good Luck on Finals from the Student Success Center! 
Tomorrow, 12/15, is the last day to drop off your hoodies for the warming shelter!
With the approach of the university’s Christmas break, here are some specific steps you can take to help protect you…
New look coming to Canvas!
Just for fun!
Place your orders now for January delivery of new logo tablecloths/table runners.
Join us for an annual Saint Mary’s tradition! Thursday at 8 PM in Saint Thomas More Chapel.
Using your Canvas Dashboard
Rest of Semester
A look back at results from m/w hockey and m/w basketball
Remember to return your books before leaving for Christmas break.
Hear from Saint Mary’s University professors and staff as they discuss climate change and how it affects our world, campus…
Do you know the percentage of undergraduate students studying at the College who live on campus?
Wednesday Pick Up Basketball, Floor Hockey, Volleyball, and Foursquare & Saturday Ping Pong Tournament
Please join in praying for the repose of the soul of Mrs. Nan Bucknam
Come for a snack and friendly conversation
In case you missed it or want to review, the last Cardinal Update Live is available for viewing.
Let’s discuss start and end of term best practices!
The Feast of the Immaculate Conception will be celebrated at 12:15 PM in Saint Thomas More Chapel on December 8….
Faculty and staff are invited to join the seniors at the social on December 7.
Pool Schedule for the Week of December 5th – 11th
Ziegler Earns MIAC Weekly Honor
Saint Mary’s is proud to be participating in the 10 Days of Giving food drive this year; there are many…
Faculty and staff are invited to join the seniors at the social on December 7.
New look coming to Canvas!
Dr. Lori Charron co-authored top Communication Ethics paper at 2022 National Communication Association Conference
Men’s hockey hosting annual Teddy Bear Toss on Dec. 10
Donations for Winona Grace House Shelter will be collected from December 1 – December 14
A look back at results from m/w hockey and m/w basketball
A group of Saint Mary’s Students network with professionals from regional professional sports teams
Applications to become a resident assistant for 2023-2024 are now open!
Saint Mary’s Athletics Youth Day is Saturday
Have you done your Christmas shopping yet? Come check out everything on sale at the Bookstore
The Office of Institutional Effectiveness is excited to release the 2021-2022 Fact Book.
Learn more about the exciting proposal for the co-curricular arts!
Is 2023 the year to start your business? Take the Entrepreneurship Assessment Test and find out. 
Pool Schedule for the Week of November 28th – December 4th
Join the Student Activities Committee for some fun! 
The best gifts are the ones homemade! Drop in the Makerspace from 3-8PM on December 9th for an opportunity to…
A look back at results from men’s hockey & m/w basketball
Provide your feedback by completing the Faculty & Staff IT End User Satisfaction Survey
Dr. Janet Heukeshoven will be performing with Flutistry flute ensemble on Sunday December 4th at Old Main in Galesville, WI…
This tech tip with walk you through how to add comments to the library through the Speedgrader.
The Co-Curricular Arts Planning Task Force will host two engagement sessions on Tuesday, Nov. 29 to share its proposal for…
Migration to Zoom Phone successfully completed. 
3 Cardinals Land Volleyball Academic All-District Honors
College Against Cancer Club’s No Shave November Results Are In!
Keeley lands MIAC AOW honor
Join Culture of Life in supporting those in need by providing gently used hoodies
Music at Saint Mary’s will offer four concert events to celebrate the beginning of the holiday season.
Gostomski Fieldhouse Thanksgiving Break Hours
Pool Schedule for the Week of November 21st – 27th 
A variety of ornaments for sale in the Bookstore.
here are some tips for celebrating safely with family and friends over Thanksgiving
A look back at results from m/w hockey & m/w basketball
SGPP Faculty please have your students complete the career development needs assessment survey.
Recently we experienced some humorous and not so humorous situations when Event Services and Maintenance Department had not approved or…
2023 Sports Hall of Fame Class Announced
Four free at-home rapid tests are available to all Minnesota households in advance of the Thanksgiving holiday through the state.
Join the Sociology of Elderhood class for any or all of a short series of conversations to gain awareness of…
Give to the Max day is Minnesota’s giving day and every gift could help us win additional dollars.
Deadline for participation is Friday @ noon
Dr. Paul Kotz begins new role as DBA Program Director role with Saint Mary’s after the Thanksgiving break. 
Come to the Bookstore and see what’s on Sale!
All are welcome to this free performance highlighting the Directing I and Dance Composition student projects.
Thank you to everyone who participated in the SOS auction! It was wonderful to see all the participation in relaunching…
The Culture of Life Club successfully raised $278.53 for Birthright!
Do you want to get the word out on TVs around campus? Did you have trouble submitting your request recently?
Students Present research at Seven Rivers Undergraduate Research Symposium held at Viterbo University
Check request and payroll deadlines for shortened holiday week.
Saint Mary’s has been recognized by the ALL IN Campus Democracy Challenge (ALL IN) as a 2022 ALL IN Most…
11 Cardinals Land Soccer Academic All-District Honors
Open enrollment is your annual opportunity to add, change, or remove benefit enrollment elections for the next plan year. 
Join students from SMU & WSU at the Chapel of the Angels for Mass & Friendsgiving!
Please join in prayer for the shooting victims at UVA.
Check out this brief article on course provisioning for the spring semester
Do you know how many international students are enrolled at the University and from which countries?
Free donuts!
Form a team of 3 and register by tomorrow afternoon!
Deadline is November 21st
SGPP Faculty please have your students complete the career development needs assessment survey.
ASCD Club is partnering with ISTEP Noyce Scholarship Grant 
Alternate side parking is effective from November 15 to March 15 for the City of Winona.
Dr. Anika Paaren-Sdano presented “The Science of Reading: An Introduction” at the first annual Small Schools Conference.
Pool Schedule for the Week of November 14th – November 20th 
Special activities and fun prizes will be available during the week of November 14th-18th in recognition of International Education Week…
Weekly Tech Tip
Nominate your fellow employees for special recogntion
As a reminder, Zoom phone training is today at 3pm or Wednesday Nov 16 at 12pm. Hope you can make…
The Co-Curricular Arts Planning Task Force will host two engagement sessions on Tuesday, Nov. 29
A look back at results from m/w hockey, m/w cross country & men’s basketball
4 Cardinals land soccer honors
Several attendees helped make Wednesday evening’s Vocation Panel a lively and engaging event.
On November 15, the Writing Center will be hosting a small event all day long to celebrate I Love To…
Saturday 11/12 at halftime of the men’s basketball game (3:00 pm) and at Cardinal Fest (5:30 pm)
11/16 – Intramurals: Bocce, Wiffle ball, Cornhole, Kickball! – RAC 7-9PM 
SAC invites all students, faculty, and staff to come on down to Cardinal Fest! 
Join Cardinals Connecting Cardinals in the first Alumni Networking Night. Alumni from around the area will be available to connect…
Senior Honors Capstone students invite everyone to Acoustic Cafe Wednesday, Nov. 16 to support the Winona Public Library
SGPP Faculty please help Career Services by encouraging your students to complete the career development needs assessment survey.
Strategies for addressing COVID-19 as cold weather approaches
Creative Arts magazine Mosaic seeking submissions.
Antar Salim Speaks on Character and Culture, 
Two live Zoom Phone Training Webinars will be held next week. 
Calling all Saint Mary’s first generation students and supports across campus – should your pride! 
Join Us for the Feast! We’d Love to Give Thanks Together! 
Senior Honors Capstone students invite everyone to Nate & Ally’s this Thursday to support the Winona Public Library
A quick reminder about snow removal procedures for the winter season
Successful mock trial included current students and alumnus Judge George Stephenson
Join your colleagues in conversation, food, and partnership!
Hosted by nonprofit organization Every Third Saturday, veterans can enjoy a free Thanksgiving meal at the American Legion Post 99…
The following students were inducted into the Beta Beta Beta (TriBeta) Honor Society on Nov. 3. 
Faculty leadership role focus of NCAA Fellows Program
Pool Schedule for the Week of November 7th – November 13th
How to download google chrome.
Tomorrow is Election Day.  What is your plan to vote?
Open enrollment is your annual opportunity to add, change, or remove benefit enrollment elections for the next plan year. 
A look back at results from women’s soccer  and m/w hockey
Join Student Success and FGI with SAC for National First Gen Day in Toner Center! 
Come support the Saint Mary’s Club Hockey Team as they host the University of Wisconsin – La Crosse!
My family and I are comforted by your kind expressions of sympathy and your prayerful support following the passing of…
Today – 7PM; Tomorrow 7PM and 10PM
Winona & SGPP: All of you have the opportunity to give your respects and contribute your offerings at our Día…
The Criminal Justice Club sponsored a horror walk in Griffin Hall over Halloween Weekend. Student volunteers served as actors and…
Buy One Get One on select items at the Bookstore happening now!
SGPP Faculty please help Career Services by encouraging your students to complete the career development needs assessment survey.
Join your colleagues in conversation, food, and partnership!
Biology Club is selling local honey from Dr. Lallaman!
Tour of Redwing Correctional Facility
Saint Mary’s University recently signed an agreement with Zoom to be our new phone provider.  
Recap & Preview of Chartwells Activities
My apologies for the multiple articles about voting yesterday
Have thoughts on the Saint Mary’s Dining experience you’d like to share with us? 
Earlier this fall, the Psychology Department hosted an internship roundtable presentation with these seniors who completed their internships this past…
Potluck and Speaker
How do members of various faith traditions approach the political landscape of America? 
We are one week away from Election Day.
The Introduction to Online Teaching course will be offered starting November 14, 2022.
Thursday November 3rd from 4:30-6pm the annual undergraduate exhibition will open, and senior thesis exhibition of mid-year Art: Graphic Design…
Fall semester update for Rochester Campus. 
Alumni, faculty, staff, students, family, and friends gathered in the spirit of the Lasallian mission of service to others. 
Seniors, whether you are graduating in December or May and you are starting your job search, don’t miss the Negotiation…
11/2 – Intramurals: Soccer, Basketball, Bowling! – RAC 7-9PM 
Winona Fun Squad
SGPP Faculty please help Career Services by encouraging your students to complete the career development needs assessment survey.
Join SMUMN Ballroom Dance Club for instructor led lessons!
Pool Schedule for the Week of October 31st – November 6th
Just for fun!
Learn how to make polymer clay earrings and walk away with your own creative designs. Only 20 spots available so…
Short-term Study Abroad Course Information
A look back at results from soccer, volleyball, cross country and hockey
No-Shave is a friendly competition to raise funds for the Childhood Cancer Community.
A notice from campus safety on the Twin Cities Campus 
Join the Student Activities Committee for Trunk or Treat from 2-4pm in the Aquinas Hall Parking Lot! 
Thank you to the students, alumni, faculty, staff and 60 organizations that came together to make the 9th Annual Career…
Are you looking for specific content on our brand new website? This video walkthrough will help point you in the…
Hear from alumni as they talk about their experiences with Hispanic Heritage Month
The final Cybersecurity Awareness Month Event will be held on the Minneapolis Campus, October 28, 2022 beginning at 11:00am.  
The final Cybersecurity Awareness October Event will be held on the Minneapolis Campus, October 28, 2022 beginning at 11:00am.  
 Kristján Kristjánsson Speaks on Universities as Schools of Friendship
Do you know how many students are enrolled in each School at SGPP?
From April to September, GSS staff visited seven states in 11 different trips.
The biggest and baddest variety show is back on campus with Blue Angel on November 4th and 5th. Bring all…
SMU’s Virtual Business Intelligence Summit on October 5th had a variety of speakers that culminated in an informative career panel,…
60 organizations are on campus today to meet with you to learn about their organizations, careers, internships and graduate school…
SGPP Faculty please help Career Services by encouraging your students to complete the career development needs assessment launching Monday, 10/31.
Learn more about participating in a spring semester short-term study abroad program.
Tomorrow is the big day! Students let us know if you will be joining us at the Career & Internship…
Learn about becoming a positive role model for a local youth
Just for fun!
School of Education volunteers clean up Winona highway.
Please join us on Thursday, November 3
Join psychology club & Dr. Tricia Klosky for her presentation
Benefactors, staff, faculty, and students gathered to celebrate philanthropy at SMUMN and present the Heritage Awards for Transformational Philanthropy.
The ISTEP-Noyce Scholarship Program invites all members of Saint Mary’s University to a panel discussion on STEM Education in High…
Let us know if you will be coming to the Career & Internship Fair this Wed. 10/26. Pre-register & receive…
Students & alumni are invited to attend the Government & Non-Profit Career Fair this Friday, 10/28 at the U of…
Spikeball, Basketball, & Volleyball – Wed. 10/26: 7-9PM RAC
Pool Schedule for the Week of October 24th – October 30th
Are you getting informed about this year’s elections? Do you know where candidates stand on the issues? Check here for…
Short-term Study Abroad Course Information
Future Health Professionals is Hosting the Semi- Annual SMU Blood Drive
This post provides insight on how to create a more welcoming environment in your course.  
A look back at results from soccer and volleyball
SGPP Faculty please help Career Services by encouraging your students to complete the career development needs assessment that will be…
Nearly 60 organizations will be attending the 9th Annual Career & Internship Fair next Wed. Check them out & RSVP…
Click here to view funeral details
During the meeting of the Board of Trustees on October 13-14, 2022, students interacted with trustees in two significant ways. 
How to do it constructively 
October is National Repect Life Month
The 9th annual Career & Internship Fair is being held Wednesday, Oct. 26, from 10:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. in…
Prayers for the repose of the soul of Mr. John G. Burns, Sr. 
Hear from alumni as they talk about their experiences with Hispanic Heritage Month
Winona Campus October Cybersecurity Awareness Event Oct 21, 2022 beginning at 11:30am
Online Open Enrollment Begins November 7
Join us for Mass at our Minneapolis campus
The return of a spooky tradition, a FREE sneak preview for students, and volunteers wanted!
Learn more about participating in a spring semester short-term study abroad program.
Dr. Teigland named as new director of the MA Counseling and Psychological Service program
Click here to view funeral arrangements for Stan Pacholski
30+ sites and 50+ students came together in person on Monday 10/17 for the annual MFT Practicum Fair
Please join us on Thursday, November 3
Open Enrollment Begins November 7
What is Password Spraying and how to stay safe from it.
Fire drills to be conducted in the residence halls 10/24/2022-10/25/2022
Prayers are requested and invited for the repose of the soul of Stan Pacholski, father of Audrey Kintzi
The Sandbar Storytelling Festival team would like to thank the Saint Mary’s University community for a successful event!
Please join in praying for the repose of the soul of Davin Kronberger, father of Lynette Johnson. 
Pool Schedule for the Week of October 17th – October 23rd
Sign up for a flu shot on the Winona campus
Equity In Athletics Disclosure Act Report 2021-22
Weekly Tech Tip
A look back at results from soccer, volleyball, and cross country
Click here for area Mass times.
Want to know more about the SGPP student body? 
Join for a conversation with Anthony DePalma about his life, career, and stories from his latest book. 
The Sandbar Storytelling Festival brings five internationally known performers to Winona and the Saint Mary’s University campus. 
Happy hour at Port 507 with Sammy’s Pizza followed by the SMU volleyball game
Early voting for the November 8 midterm election is happening now in Minnesota
Prepare for advising season from the Advisers in the Student Success Center
Friday, October 14th from 7:30-9:30 am in Aquinas Hall 345 (patio).
On Friday, Oct. 21, the Winona campus will celebrate the 60th jubilees of Bros. Frank & Stephen.
If you plan to vote in Minnesota, the deadline to preregister is October 18th
The questions in a social media quiz may seem trivial, but your answers reveal a lot about you. Read on…
Registration closes on Friday October 14.
The Writing Center will be serving Mexican hot chocolate in honor of Hispanic Heritage Month
The SMUMN Pep Band is still looking for faculty, staff, and additional students to fill its ranks for the 2022-2023…
Assistant professor of chemistry Dr. Heidi Dahlmann has recently presented research results at a national meeting of the American Chemical…
Have thoughts on the Saint Mary’s Dining experience you’d like to share with us? 
We will be sending books back to the publishers soon!
Please pray for the repose of the soul of Br. Konrad Diebold, FSC
International students from local high school share perspectives with Saint Mary’s Intercultural Communicationsclass.
Come Learn How You Can Make It Happen
Join the Student Senate as it hears about why student should vote.
Let’s talk about our learning systems – glows and grows!
A look back at results from soccer and volleyball
Venerate first class relics of Bl. Carlos Acutis and Saint Manuel Gonzalez Garcia as they tour our diocese. 
Dr. Ray Faber will be making two presentations in Door County, WI on October 13, 2022.
Pool Schedule for the Week of October 10th – 16th
The 9th annual Career & Internship Fair is being held Wednesday, Oct. 26, from 10:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. in…
Kaydi Breeser was a Saint Mary’s University Fellow at Gundersen, an academic collaboration brought about through 1958 alumnus Dr. Jon…
Join Career Services for the Interviewing Strategies workshop Oct. 12 at 5 p.m. Sign up to attend on Handshake!
Weekly Tech Tip
_
The student activities committee, along with other clubs and organizations, is hosting a trunk or treat event on campus for…
Chemistry and Physics Club went stargazing, ate s’mores and saw Jupiter!! 
Today, Friday, is #Election Ready day of National Voter Education Week.
Loan Forgiveness and Repayment Updates
Apply today to be selected as a member of the 2022-23 Teaching Fellows Program.  Application deadline is October 17th.
You’re invited to a presentation on motivations to vote on October 11th.
You are not going to want to miss this CLEARANCE Sale!
Today, Thursday, is #BallotReady day of National Voter Education Week.  
Faculty-led Short-Term Study Abroad Opportunity, Spring Semester
The Saint Mary’s Pre-law Society students talk with law school representatives at Law School Fair
Saint Mary’s University of Minnesota is hosting the annual Clothesline Project by the Advocacy Center of Winona.
Saint Mary’s students on the Winona Campus participated in the Walk to End Alzheimer’s event on Sat. October 1st
Come listen to international students talk about their experiences in the U.S. 
Dr. Mary Louise Wise is retiring after 28 years of service to Saint Mary’s University and the Counseling and Psychological…
The Red Lot parking lot will be closed on Wednesday, October 12th, 2022 at 5 pm
Consider getting an updated bivalent booster dose at least 2 months after your final primary series dose or last booster…
Relaxed COVID-19 mitigation measures may result in increased seasonal influenza virus circulation.
Have you ever dreamed of seeing the Sistine Chapel, Michelangelo’s David, or the canals of Venice?  Now’s your chance!  
After years of frustration while working as a nurse anesthetist, Roxanne McMurray invented a groundbreaking way to ventilate patients while…
You are more likely to vote if you make a plan to do it. 
Adopt a Highway clean-up opportunity
The Dr. Christina D. Huck Scholarship Application is available to M.A. in Counseling and Psychological Services graduate students in Minneapolis. 
The “Cardinal Connections” networking event allowed Business and Communication Department students to meet and talk with Winona-area business and civic…
Stop by the Lillian Davis Hogan Galleries to view the work of alumna Anna Segner. Join us on Thursday, Oct….
The Counseling and Psychological Services MA Program mourns the loss of longtime faculty member, Dr. Paula Solon.
Limited spaces are still available to have your resume reviewed & receive feedback from local HR professionals TODAY between 12…
Fall games, food, vendors, and more in the dining hall for dinner! 
The tradition is coming back – Just for fun!
October 3 – 7 is National Voter Education Week.  See below and stay tuned for voter education information this week.
Join SMUMN Ballroom Dance Club and learn how to ballroom dance!
Parker Swanson, a Saint Mary’s triple major, spent his summer in an immersive solutions analyst internship at Fastenal, a global…
Students sign up for a 15 minute meeting to have your resume reviewed & receive feedback from local HR professionals…
_
Pool Schedule for the Week of October 3rd – October 9th
We invite you to be a part of our annual day of service in the community!
Advance yourself within Saint Mary’s learning systems
A look back at results from soccer, volleyball, cross country, and men’s tennis
Information Technology will be hosting cybersecurity awareness events on both campuses.
Are you interested in volunteering for the Sandbar Storytelling Festival on Oct. 14 and 15?
The next State of the University will be Tuesday, Oct. 4, from 12:10 to 1:10 p.m.
Study at the Lasallian Universities Center for Education (LUCE)
The Annual Security Report containing this information is now available on the Campus Safety website.
The Annual Security and Fire Report containing this information is now available on the Campus Safety website.
Please join in prayer for those affected by Hurricane Ian
Faculty-led Short-Term Study Abroad Opportunity, Spring Semester
Students sign up for a 15 minute meeting to have your resume reviewed & receive feedback from local HR professionals…
Win raffle items, enjoy lunch and a free happy hour for attendees at the Fall Faculty Conference this Saturday, October…
Add the SAC Calendar to your Google Calendar
Do you have a federal student loan? If so, you may be able to benefit from temporary changes made to…
Let’s talk about our learning systems – glows and grows!
The Office of Institutional Effectiveness is excited to introduce Data Bytes to the Saint Mary’s community.
Today Lasallians commemorate Blessed Bro. Scubilion, “Catechist to the Slaves” of Réunion
The Sandbar Storytelling Festival is offering a Storytelling Workshop and Competition for Winona area college students and the opportunity to…
Nguyen earns MIAC weekly honor
Come perform at Open Mic Night alongside spoken word artist Asia Samson
SMUMN has so much to do! Check out the events that are happening this week and more…
Pool Schedule for the Week of September 26th – October 2nd
Overview of course readiness document for Fall Term II
Attend the Virtual Summit on Wednesday Oct 5th starting at 12pm! 
A look back at results from men’s and women’s soccer, volleyball, and women’s tennis
Help us determine how to best integrate the arts into co-curricular planning at Saint Mary’s!
Visit the Bookstore during Family Weekend
Today is the last day to register for the SGPP Fall Faculty Conference that is being held in-person Saturday, October…
Instrumentalists and vocalists are welcome to audition for one of Saint Mary’s biggest and longest-running events on campus!
Virtual Celebration of Lasallian Women of Hope
The University of Minnesota is hosting a Law School Fair on Monday, October 3 from 12:00 – 3:00 p.m. on…
Join Career Services TODAY for High Impact Resumes – 5 p.m. in Toner 9
Attend Career Services Virtual Advanced Resume Writing Workshop – TODAY at noon on Zoom
Join Us for Family Weekend!
Just for fun!
The Minneapolis Campus Fun Squad is hosting an Oktoberfest fundraiser for Messiah Lutheran Church food shelf on Thursday, October 6,…
Lasallian Collegians sponsored apple-picking & juice-making event last Saturday
The red lot will be closing for Family Weekend (9/23-9/25)
Join Career Services for the virtual Advanced Resume Writing Workshop – Wednesday, September 21 at noon on Zoom
Join Career Services for High Impact Resumes – Wednesday, September 21 at 5 p.m. in Toner 9
Join SAC in the Winona Walk to End Alzheimer’s on October 1st! Anyone can sign up to be added to…
Today is National Voter Registration Day.
Warnock and Hubbard Represent the School of Education with PELSB in National Webinar
Prayers are invited for the repose of the soul of Susan Mary Oldakowski, sister of Dr. Joyce Bautch
School of Education begins year with mission workshop
Just for fun!
Deadline to apply for both is this Friday, September 23rd.
SMUMN has so much to do! Check out the events that are happening this week and more…
Calling all departments, programs, and organizations! 
Commit to making your voice heard in the upcoming election. It’s time to make a plan to vote! 
September 17 is Constitution Day.
Pool Schedule for the Week of September 19th – 25th
A look back at results from men’s and women’s soccer, volleyball, and cross country
Visit the Bookstore during Family Weekend
The Writing Center launches a new program to assist international students.
Want to know more about the undergraduate College student body?
Lasallian Collegians and the Brothers are sponsoring the first “Friday Coffee & Donuts on the Plaza this Friday from 9-11am. 
SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 8 PM | Chapel of St. Mary of the Angels
Join the Alumni Association at Thesis Beer Project on Tuesday, September 20. 
Career Services is offering several workshops to help students build their career-ready tool kit for their internship & career search.
Let’s talk Canvas – glows and grows!
Please pray for Jill Colum, Head Athletic Trainer
Join us in prayer to begin the year!
SMU Students to Spend the Fall 2022 Semester Abroad
We are one week away from National Voter Registration Day. 
Minnesota health care providers are administering updated COVID-19 booster shots that have been formulated to be more effective against the…
Attention SGPP faculty, staff, and administration. Your voice is important to us and our SMUMN community.
School of Education Welcomes New Special Education Program Director
Career Services is offering the following workshops to prepare students for their job and/or internship search. We’re here to take…
When will my Fall Term 2 courses be available?
Getting To Know Them: Corbin Bowers
Sign up for a flu shot in Minneapolis
Encourage your students to attend the Networking with Impact workshop this Wed., Sept. 14 at 5 p.m.
Please pray for Br. Bede, FSC
SMUMN has so much to do! Check out the events that are happening this week and more…
Pool Schedule for the Week of September 12th – 18th 
Make the World Your Classroom
Best In The Nest Winners Announced
A look back at results from men’s and women’s soccer, volleyball, and cross country
This tech tip will walk you through adding audio to each component of quizzes. 
Have concerns about a student? Submit an Early Alert!
Do you have a student that can benefit from peer to peer support?
A Welcome to our Winona Campus International Students
Thursday, September 15, 2022 from 9am – 11am at the University Center
Join us in welcoming Jon Roesler, who began last month as the Master of Public Health Program Director! 
Let’s talk Canvas – glows and grows!
Ulaszek is leaving the university after accepting the position of chief financial officer for the University of Minnesota School of…
We invite you to advance what is possible
Mass will be offered monthly for the faculty, staff, and students of our Minneapolis campus. All are welcome to join…
Our mission formation participants returned to our community revitalized and filled with excitement as they continue to live out our…
Encourage your students to attend the Career Readiness workshop on Wednesday, 9/7 at 5 p.m.
Just for fun!
Now is the time to report any conflicts of commitment that you may have.
Weekly Tech Tip
Tuition Exchange Scholarship Applications Due October 1
A look back at results from men’s and women’s soccer, volleyball, and cross country
On September 2, the Lasallian Institute commemorates the Brother Martyrs of the French Revolution
Sign up for a flu shot in Minneapolis
Please join us in prayer and thanksgiving for the apostolic work of Sister Mary Elizabeth Ann, RSM
Please pray for the repose of the soul of Eric Zeitlin, ’15. 
New Fall Bookstore Hours
Two Scholarships available for the 22-23 academic year – deadline to apply for both is Friday, September 23rd.
The First Five Weeks are underway!
If you are experiencing these issues viewing our staff and faculty directory, please try the following solution in this article
Just for fun!!
2022 Fall Season Previews
Safety Tips and Reminders for Start of Term
The following welcome was shared with undergraduate students today, and it’s an important message we are sharing more widely.
Prayers are invited for Brother Roger Betzold, FSC, who is currently in the hospital undergoing tests. 
A memorial and celebration of life will be held on Saturday, September 10 at Saint Mary’s University to honor the…
How to check if your links are correctly validated.
In the past few days, our web crew has been busy correcting glitches, links, and other errors — which we…
Welcome Back!  Here is when the Bookstore will be open for you to pick-up your books!
Tim Albers, vice provost for enrollment management, has announced that he will be leaving Saint Mary’s University on Friday, Sept….
Tell Your Students About Canvas Pick Up & Play
Patrick Garry is wearing a new hat these days
August and September training offerings from the office of Instructional Technology 
Tell Your Students About Canvas Pick Up & Play
Welcome back to campus! Sunday, August 28, 10:30 a.m. | Saint Thomas More Chapel
Please read here for a few reminders about our 2022 University Convocation on August 23, 2022.
photos and bean bag toss winners
City wide bus pass available – Now Available for Faculty and Staff as Well! 
Please include on your syllabi a statement that tells students about the services of the Writing Center
August and September training offerings from the office of Instructional Technology 
FAQs regarding the Education Department (undergraduate) at Saint Mary’s
Patrick Garry is wearing a new hat these days
All are welcome to join us for Mass on August 21 at 10:30 in the Saint Thomas More Chapel
Welcome Weekend is approaching quickly, and we are excited to announce a full schedule of events.
Gostomski Fieldhouse first semester hours
Please pray for Carl and Jackie Ditola, parents of Wendy Albers
Matthew Huff is assuming the role of interim director of Campus Safety on our Winona Campus.
The Saint Mary’s community is invited to attend the 2-day storytelling event which includes five internationally known storytellers.
Please read these protocols carefully as they will govern our response to COVID-19 this fall.
Terri Lieder’s father, Gerald Niehaus, passed away on August 8 in Marshfield, Wis. We ask for prayers from the Saint Mary’s University community.
Take pause in your day to reflect upon the Course Readiness Organizer. 
Join us in welcoming first years and all returning students back to campus at the Welcome Home BBQ!
Join us on August 24th at 11:30 a.m. as we honor Distinguished Professor Emeritus, Dr. Richard Kowles M’67 by naming…
August 16th is National Poll Worker Recruitment Day.  This day of action is meant to assist in poll worker recruitment.
The brown parking lot will be closed August 24th at 4 pm.
Cardinal Excellence Fund: The Year In Review
Cardinal Central and Student Central Closed on Wednesday 8/17
Please pray for Mr. Bernie Wagnild
Prayer Request for Very Rev. Patrick Arens
See here for information about University Convocation
A prayer request for Father Mike Cronin. 
As part of our rebranding efforts, we have important style changes, like using Minneapolis Campus. The styleguide has been updated…
Jenny Kuderer, Institutional Research Analyst, had a commentary published in the Opinion section of the Minneapolis Star Tribune last month.
Discover Your Passion… Discover your Saint Mary’s
Prayers are invited for the repose of the soul of Virginia Murphy
This tech tip will show you how to fix the HTML editor in your syllabus.
Please pray for Mike Cannon and his family.
Men’s soccer earns United Soccer honor
12 Cardinals named NFCA All-America Scholar-Athletes
Sign up for 3 free APA workshops for Faculty in August to help you teach or publish in APA style  
Are you interested in working on-campus? Log in to Handshake today to apply to on-campus positions. 
Weekly Tech Tip
WFS event
Women’s soccer lands United Soccer honor
This Friday, the Most. Rev. Robert E. Barron, D.D., S.T.D. will be installed as the bishop of the Diocese of…
Baseball team honored by ABCA
Primary elections are coming and midterm elections are around the corner.  Register to vote now.
Upcoming Summer College Implementation Planning Update
This summer, Seth Gonring is one of two interns working in the public defenders’ office for the 3rd Judicial District…
Kevin Bross M’03 was recently named one of TIME Magazine’s 10 Innovative Teachers for his work in implementing instructional rounds…
Learn the different ways to set up and organize student Groups in Canvas.
Jul Gernes Pool Reopening: August 15th 
The Frontline Workers Pay application will close on Friday, July 22, at 5:00 p.m.
Tennis teams honored by ITA
CEF Golf Outing Set For Sept. 10
Bring your coffee/drink and enjoy a Bloedow’s donut to start your day with colleagues.  
C2C Students, as their final, culminating C2C Science experience, will be presenting their posters on Friday, July 22 at 10:30am
Join your colleagues and CELT to attend the conference virtually! View, reflect and discuss key learnings!
Please pray for Ms. Oluwakemi Olusade Okeyemi and the consolation of her family. 
Tennis teams honored by ITA
Swanson earns USTFCCCA All-Region honor
Track teams, 3 individuals, earn USTFCCCA academic accolades
9 men’s hockey players earn AHCA academic honors
Join your colleagues and CELT to attend the conference virtually! View, reflect and discuss key learnings!
Check out this brief article on course provisioning for the fall semester
Ice Cream Social for Winona Campus employees
Join us from 3 to 5:30 pm as we play games on the plaza!
Reminder about the Back Course Copy Request process. 
Let’s talk Canvas – glows and grows!
Countdown to College (C2C) students will be returning as part of the SMU campus community in just a few days!
Join the Saint Mary’s community in celebrating its employees for their years of service. 
We Goofed!
School of Education Team Participates in Second MN Adopt-A-Highway Clean-Up
SMU’s First Generation Initiative is proud to announce, we’ve opened the Zeta Delta Chapter of a national honors society for…
Please join us in prayers of thanksgiving for the arrival of Julius “Jules” McGuire, son of Anna and Twigz McGuire
The Gostomski Fieldhouse will have reduced hours during the rest of the month of July
Thursday, June 30th in the Common Space between Office of Admissions and Robertolino’s Office
Let’s talk Canvas – glows and grows!
A whopping 70 Saint Mary’s University student-athletes earned Academic All-Minnesota Intercollegiate Athletic Conference recognition.
This weekly tech tip discusses the difference between the Canvas icons and how they can speed up course cleanup.
Starting Friday, June 24, campus will be flooded with alumni coming back to celebrate their time at SMU.
Please pray for one of our long-time faculty members!
Saint Mary’s University Office of Admissions is participating in Minnesota Private College Week, June 21 – 24.
During the event-filled weekend, Saint Mary’s will celebrate five individuals during the 2022 Alumni Awards ceremony on Saturday, June 25.
If you are having trouble viewing/navigating our websites, here is a possible solution.
Weekly Tech Tip
Congratulations to the Doctor of Psychology (Psy.D.) in Counseling Psychology program on a successful re-accreditation! 
The Bookstore will be closed Monday, June 20 in observance of the Juneteenth Holiday
In the most recent episode of Saint Mary’s Currents, assistant professor of business Andrew Scott discusses inflation.
Saint Mary’s welcomes over 200 incoming students to campus this week to register for Fall 2022 courses. 
Read for more updates regarding the budget for Fiscal Year 2023 and fringe benefits. 
In this weekly Tech Tip you will learn how to add your course’s recent announcements to your course home page.
A revised performance review form makes use of SMART goals (Specific, Measurable, Achievable, Relevant, and Timebound) to enable more effective…
As a higher education employee, you may be eligible for Minnesota Frontline Worker Pay.
Student-athletes honored for volunteer work
Please keep the following people in prayer as they participate in formation.
Student learning is evolving, reIMAGINE what can be done!
The Holy See announced that Pope Francis has appointed the Most Rev. Robert E. Barron as the ninth Bishop of…
Cyber Security Training and statistical update
Theatre Instructor presents at Costume Society of America symposium
SID Donny Nadeau lands 3 national writing awards in the CoSIDA Fred J. Stabley Writing Contest
Saint Mary’s University will celebrate its 2022 graduates in the Schools of Graduate and Professional Programs on Saturday, June 4.
Saint Mary’s University is proud to announce that Jonathon Krull has been recognized on the 2022 ALL IN Student Voting…
Are you running the latest update to Zoom? This video walkthrough showcases the new features!
The Gostomski Fieldhouse will have reduced hours during the rest of the month of May
Please join us in prayers of thanksgiving for the arrival of Joseph Daniel Kusek, son of Brian Kusek, campus minister,…
Walkthrough and analysis of the FA21 and SP22 Canvas Survey Summary #Canvas #StudentVoice
SMU’s Anna Swanson eager for NCAA appearance
Please pray for the repose of the soul of Father Dana Christensen, a 2001 IHM and Saint Mary’s University graduate.
The Saint Mary’s athletic department is inviting the Saint Mary’s campus community to a send-off for Anna Swanson on Tuesday.
Take two minutes to confirm that you are registered to vote.
SMU track and field boast 2 champions, 4 All-MIAC, and 3 honorable-mention All-MIAC
Brother Carlos Gomez, FSC, D’99, from Colombia, is an alumnus of Saint Mary’s University of Minnesota’s Doctor of Education program
Saint Mary’s baseball players Trevon VanEgtern and Anderew Fischer were named First-Team All-MIAC and Mason Coyle was selected to the MIAC…
On May 18, 2022, Brother Armin Luistro, FSC was elected the 28th Superior General of the Institute of the Brothers…
3 Cardinals land MIAC softball honors
Winona and Olmsted counties are at HIGH COVID-19 community transmission levels. See how we are adapting our masking protocols.
SMU’s Riley Hall named Third Team All-Region
Learn more about the Saint Mary’s M.A. in Philanthropy and Development
In an address to a crowd of over 1,300 federal employees, Michael Ratajczyk, Ph.D. (ABD) spoke about the future of…
Chrome River will now be Single Sign On (SSO) for all Staff and Faculty
Access a recorded version of yesterday’s webinar regarding the reenvisioning of Saint Mary’s future
This year’s Saint Mary’s Benefit Dance raised $7,200
Friday, May 13th and Saturday, May 14th Parking Arrangements.
Please join in prayer for the repose of the soul of Tom Piscitielo and for the comfort and consolation of…
Here are the 2022 recipients of departmental awards and honor society recognitions.
Scheduled maintenance will restrict new article submission today May 6th
Here are the 2022 recipients of departmental awards and honor society recognitions.
Dr. Susan Cosby Ronnenberg, Dean of the College, has announced that she will be leaving Saint Mary’s University at the…
The Gostomski Fieldhouse will have reduced hours during the rest of the month of May
Saint Mary’s University is honored to learn Sarah Lancaster, a graduate of the M.A. in Education program, has been named…
Faculty! Come hang out and have a meal with (and on) the seniors. Faculty eat for free!
The Office for Inclusion and Human Dignity invites the entire Saint Mary’s community to honor and celebrate Asian American and…
Winona Undergraduate College Commencement is Saturday, May 7.
Every seven years, Brother delegates from around the world gather at the Generalate in Rome for a General Chapter. The…
Seasonal Job openings
Thank you to all who made Plazapalooza 2022 a possibility! 
Learn more about the General Chapter and join in praying for the delegates and expert consultants
Please see below for information about masking and the  livestream link for commencement at the College.
The Department of Language, Literature, and Culture announces the recipients of its annual writing awards. 
Calling all volunteers!
A look back at results from baseball, softball, and m/w track and field — as well as a look ahead…
Weekly Tech Tip
Don’t forget to return your rental books to the bookstore before you leave campus!
You are invited to join the president of Saint Mary’s University, Father James P. Burns, for the end of the…
All are invited to have fun at Plazapalooza! 
Three members of the Saint Mary’s University’s Beta Beta Beta Honor Society presented their senior research at the Minnesota Academy…
Get a chance to dunk at Plazapalooza for the junior class!
Saint Mary’s travels to the annual conference of the University Professional & Continuing Education Association to present on our innovative…
A look back at results from baseball, softball, m/w tennis, and m/w track and field — as well as a…
Important dates for the end of the fiscal year
This tech tip will show have to navigate an assignment that allows multiple submissions. Specifically, it shows how feedback/comments function.
Bookstore rentals are due Tuesday, May 3rd!
New Assistant Professor in the School of Education
Dr. Cate Denial, Director of the Bright Institute at Knox College, facilitated an interactive workshop with faculty this month that…
Saint Mary’s University recognizes students, faculty, and staff, who have exhibited outstanding leadership and service through co-curricular activities
Business intelligence and data analytics majors Brady Lindauer and Scott Stamness have each been awarded a $1,000 MinneAnalytics scholarship.
Saint Mary’s welcomes Nursing and 3+2 PA students to campus on Saturday for NSOR. 
Please join us during Celebration of Scholarship on Friday, April 22nd, for an informal reception with refreshments in the Common…
Bro John Grover is taking students to a nearby modern megalithic garden: “Kinstone.” Think Stonehenge!
Brandon Merfeld, a junior Biology major, has been published in the International Journal of Exercise Science.
The IHM Schola, Saint Mary’s Chamber Singers, and Concert Choir will perform on Saturday, April 23, at 7:30 p.m. at…
In celebration of Women’s history month, CELT partnered with the Office of Inclusion and Human Dignity to welcome award-winning director,…
Saint Mary’s University has so much to do! Check out the events that are happening this week and more ….
Final Exams begin on Friday, April 29th
Learn how to use the Late Policies in the Canvas Grades area to easily assign grades to late and missing…
Saint Mary’s welcomes Justin M. Anderson, Ph.D. on May 2 to present “Thomas Aquinas, FSC? What Aquinas Could Say about…
Enjoy jazz-inspired theme songs and soundtracks Sunday, April 24, in Page Theatre.
The Saint Mary’s Concert Band spring semester performance April 23 is free and open to the public.
Thank you to the Saint Mary’s University Community for Saving Lives
The Gostomski Fieldhouse will have reduced hours during Easter break
IMPORTANT: COVID-19 is still out there.  Read here for Easter Break mitigation strategies
Time is running out to enter the CampusReel Competition
Black Student and Allies is hosting our biggest event of the year.
Many thanks to all who assisted in Spruce Up Winona on Saturday
Obituary and Memorial Service Information
Bookstore Hours for Easter Break
Since November there have been over 20 tech tips shared. Let’s highlight a few and find the old ones!
A look back at results from baseball, softball, women’s tennis, and m/w track and field — as well as a…
Staff and faculty who were unable to attend Cardinal Update Live can access a recording of the event 
Diversity Cafe offered a ‘Night at Museum’ event April 4 at the Winona County History Center.
Students and faculty had the opportunity to participate in the Midwest Instruction and Computing Symposium on the campus of the…
Members of the Saint Mary’s University community are invited to hear the story of Omid Momand, an Afghan refugee rehomed…
Calling all Cardinals: Come check out all the Makerspace has to offer!
The new academic calendar is set for 2022-2023 year.
Campus Ministry is still accepting donations.
Come learn about water sustainability during the Making Waves at Saint Mary’s event on Tuesday, April 12. 
What exactly is a metaverse? What are the concerns that come with it? What ar the possibilities? 
Last call for donations for Relay for Life. Join us in the fight against cancer!
SMUMN has so much to do! Check out the events that are happening this week and more . . .
The Cardinal Co-op food pantry is asking for faculty donations in hopes of achieving our goal of $500 to provide…
News, events, pictures, recipes, and more!
Saturday April 9 from 2:30 – 4:00 in the Lillian Davis Hogan Galleries, senior Art: Graphic Design majors share thesis…
Explore chemistry, psychology, medicine, and more through interactive experiences held by students. All are welcome regardless of age, major, or…
Please join us on Friday!
Enter up to 6 videos to win a Nintendo Switch and other prizes
Saint Mary’s history professor Erich Lippman will join two other experts to discuss the Ukraine/Russia conflict. 
Please pray for the repose of the soul of David Van Beusekom
Come, meet acclaimed professional makers, hear their stories about what it’s like to make a living from making art, &…
Join CELT for a virtual interactive workshop on “Embracing a Pedagogy of Kindness,” led by Cate Denial. 
Seniors are hosting the annual Gaslight musical variety show! Come to support Saint Mary’s musicians!
SGPP summer semester courses that were previously offered on-ground, in-person will return to that modality.
Weekly Tech Tip
A look back at results from baseball, softball, m/w tennis, and m/w track and field — as well as a…
2017 Saint Mary’s alumna Taylor Pogreba will visit campus Monday
Enjoy jazz, snacks, games and more and help Habitat help others on April 9.
Black Students and Allies invite you to join us on our first annual two day diversity conference 
Ramadan 2022 will begin April 2 and end May 2.
Students, faculty, and staff are encouraged to attend.  This event is open to the public.
Tickets for the semi formal dance will be $15 for single tickets or $26 for couples, and can now be…
Please join in prayer for the repose of the soul of Mr. Jack Huber
Join us for the Spring Faculty and Staff Meeting
The Saint Mary’s benefit silent auction and dance are here! The silent auction begins today!
The event is from 11:30 a.m. to 1:15 p.m. on Thursday, April 7, and will be held at Saint Mary’s…
Saint Mary’s University has so much to do! Check out the events that are happening this week and more ….
The Environmental Awareness Center and RISE are sponsoring a camping trip to Great River Bluff State Park
There is a historic blood shortage and we need YOUR help!
Please read below for information about a new university COVID-19 protocol and other COVID-19 information.
Please join in prayer for the repose of the soul of Harlan Kern
On Thursday March 31st, IT will be setting a flag on your account that will prompt you to set up…
Saint Mary’s will host a conference April 2 that will address ‘Where Health Care Ethics and Medicine Converge.’
Last week the Biology Department inducted 34 students into the Beta Beta Beta Biological Honor Society. 
Thanks to all who made the 10K for Ukraine a success!
Spruce Up Winona is coming Saturday, April 9
 Update on FY 2022-2023 Employment Contracts
Mark your calendars for April 7 from 9-10 for the next Cardinal Update Live.
11am-1pm by the Toner Stairs! Winning class will recieve a special prize! 
Biology Club T-shirt Sale ends Wednesday March 30!
Weekly Tech Tip
A look back at results from baseball, m/w tennis, and women’s track & field — as well as a look…
2005 Saint Mary’s alumna Jenny (Folgers) Baertsch will discuss her new children’s chapter book March 30 at 12:30 p.m. in…
Please join Pope Francis and the universal church in this worldwide consecration
Join The Lasallian Literati book club to discuss the podcast: An episode of 10% Happier featuring Emily and Amelia Nagoski.
Freshman & Sophomores Fastenal is hiring for their Co-op Program. A fantastic, paid, opportunity with applications due March 31st.
Great fun with Matt Klosky
CAP499 Integratus Capstone and the FYE101 Anchor Courses are being re-coded to INT.
30 Students, Faculty, Staff and Guests attend Local Leadership Event
The SMUMN Ballroom Dance Club is hosting a Foxtrot lesson to teach ballroom to students and interested staff or faculty.
Saint Mary’s University has so much to do! Check out the events that are happening this week and more ….
If you already ordered your first set of at-home COVID-19 tests from the federal government, order a second today.
Winona Commencement plans outlined below.
Marketing and Communication is ready to begin re-working and transferring content from our current site to prepare it for the…
Attention staff and faculty–your required cyber security training is due April 21st.
A look back at results from baseball and tennis, baseball — as well as a look ahead to what’s on…
On behalf of Cardinals Connecting Cardinals (CCC) thank you to those that participated in Lights Out on Tuesday, March 15. 
Saint Mary’s Currents host Ben Rodgers is joined by history professor Erich Lippman to discuss the historical context behind Russia’s…
Now is the time to ask our MN legislators to help our students with larger need-based grants.
Summer Courses will be automated in early April. Here are the dates for automation and best practices once they show…
Dr. Benjamin Dean Taylor has been selected for the next Kaplan Foundation Commission at Saint Mary’s University.
Ary Ziakas was 1 of 9 finalists for the Laura Hurd Award, presented to the best Division III wonen’s hockey…
Please pray for those involved in the vehicle accident from the University of Southwest
The celebration honored alumnus Blessed James Miller, a faculty member, a staff member, and two outstanding seniors 
Requests must be made by Tuesday, April 1, to Campus Ministry at Saint Mary’s University
London Study Abroad Questions?
Inaugural CEF Dinner & Hall of Fame Ceremony a huge success
Join CELT for a virtual interactive workshop on “Embracing a Pedagogy of Kindness,” led by Dr. Cate Denial. 
Whether you are considering advancing your master’s degree to a DBA now or in the future, join the virtual info…
The SMUMN Ballroom Dance Club is bringing professional instructors on campus to teach ballroom to students and interested staff or…
50 Students, Faculty, Staff and Guests attend ‘Science vs. Religion?’ Event
Public Relations/Business Club students toured the Xcel Energy Center in St. Paul and visited with Minnesota Wild staff
The Student Activities Committee held a Pi Day fundraiser to raise funds for the Advocacy Center of Winona
The Saint Mary’s University Beta Chapter of Delta Epsilon Sigma inducted 25 new members at a luncheon ceremony on Mar….
March 16th Event: “Local Leadership in Divisive Times”
Celebrate De La Salle Week with Coffee and Donuts with the Brothers
Per recent masking guidance. masks will be required for the Founders’ Day Convocation
A meaningful Winona Campus tradition continues this year with the 21st annual Saint Mary’s Benefit Dance, planned for Saturday, April…
Saint Mary’s Department of Fine and Performing Arts will present “Legally Blonde: The Musical”  March 24-26.
Career Services & the Office of Alumni Engagement host successful 1st Annual Mock Interview Day & Networking Lunch event last…
Saint Mary’s Currents host Ben Rodgers is joined by history professor Erich Lippman to discuss the historical context behind Russia’s…
Calling all artists! The SMUMN Art Club is currently looking for new student members.
Lights Out Day is taking place on March 15 representing the importance of the Saint Mary’s Fund and philanthropy on…
Saint Mary’s Day of Giving is a 24-hour giving challenge where we come together to support our students. 
Explaining the Back Course Copy Request process at St. Mary’s.
Art: Graphic Design major Carter King has received an award from the AdFed of Minnesota!
Artwork and creative endeavors by faculty and staff outside the art and design area on view in the Lillian Davis…
Dining News, Events, Specials, Recipes, and More
Sarah Haugen and Tracy Lysne, Program Directors in our M.Ed. in Teaching and Learning Program, discuss faculty development through a…
Calling all Saint Mary’s musicians!
This series of webinars is designed to introduce Saint Mary’s advisers to various resources across campus.
Effective March 14, 2022, t he university will cease its contact tracing investigations for students. 
De La Salle Week is March 13-19, 2022
Check here for the link to watch the Founders’ Day Convocation on March 15th
Faculty and Staff Exhibition
A link is now available to faculty and staff who were unable to attend — or would like to review…
Career Services and the Office of Alumni Engagement are excited to welcome Saint Mary’s Alumni & representatives from Fastenal to…
Read here about small acts of kindness you can do this week.
Sign up to learn and explore the techniques of wood burning for free!
March 16th Event: “Local Leadership in Divisive Times”
Help support philanthropy on campus by turning your lights off for 1 minute in class on March 15 and share…
Faculty, staff, students, and guests will hear four area leaders discuss how they navigate local politics during such a polarizing…
The Chamber Singers will present a free Homecoming Concert Thursday.
Throw a Pie at Tim Gossen or Brian Sisson for $3!
Join us in the fight against cancer! Sign up or donate today.
March 9 “Science & Religion: Friends or Foes” panel discussion 7:00 pm
Founders’ Day will take place on Tuesday, March 15th. In an effort to allow all to attend Mass and the…
7 Cardinal hockey players land 10 MIAC post-season honors — including MIAC Player of the Year for Ary Ziakas
Theatre students, faculty, and staff attend USITT annual conference in Baltimore, MD
In Solidarity with Ukraine: Prayer Service and Fundraising for the Ukraine Catholic Church and Humanitarian Aid
Working in the field of natural resource management and digital mapping, Andy Robertson has seen the impacts of climate change…
The Office of Admission is buckling up for a busy Spring travel season, working hard to recruit students and to…
Learn to Cha Cha
Join the Office of Advising and New Student Experience for an overview of Integratus 
Join us today for Google Training!
March 9 “Science & Religion: Friends or Foes” panel discussion 7:00 pm
Today is your last chance to join alumni for Saint Mary’s Mock Interview Day & Networking Lunch being held on…
Sanneh is a former professional soccer player and the founder of the Sanneh Foundation 
Annual employee performance reviews will now align with the university’s fiscal year.
Math drop-in hours start Wednesday March 9 from 3:00 to 5:00 pm in Aquinas Hall 124A.
Please vote for our Outstanding Seniors by March 8. 
Learn how to create quiz questions in Canvas’s New quiz tool where students need to indicate a certain location on…
A look back at results from women’s hockey, tennis, baseball, and fastpitch softball — as well as a look ahead…
This series of webinars is designed to introduce Saint Mary’s advisers to various resources across campus.
Read here for information about Founder’s Day 2022
GSS staff travel to northern Minnesota to collect lake cores
Stay tuned for a possible adjustment to the university’s masking requirements
Kindness begets kindness
Do you have ideas for how Saint Mary’s can reduce expenses? Click on the link below to submit them.
Please pray for the repose of the soul of Joshua Jeffrey Pearson 
Please join us to commemorate the 25th anniversary of the tragic death of five alumni
Service is key to Saint Mary’s mission, and our faculty, staff, and students are showing their commitment to bettering their…
In celebration of its heritage, Saint Mary’s University will present a number of awards at its annual Founders’ Day celebration…
Prayers are requested for the repose of the soul of Roger Landblom
Join the Office of Advising and New Student Experience for an overview of Integratus 
Please pray for John Sullivan ’50
Anthony, Freetly, Paulson & Goettelman pick up MIAC basketball honors
Working in the field of natural resource management and digital mapping, Andy Robertson has seen the impacts of climate change…
Join us on March 23rd at 5:45pm for overdose prevention training through the Steve Rummler Hope Network in conjunction with…
Checkout how this course blends online and offline learning along with a variety of tech tools!
Remember to bring your formal wear and dance shoes back from break and get ready to celebrate the 21st annual…
This series of webinars is designed to introduce Saint Mary’s advisers to various resources across campus.
Please join us in prayer for alumni who are living in Kyiv
Skate Club and RISE are hosting a skate drive – Bring your unused skates back from break
Voting for outstanding senior male and female is now open. 
The Gostomski Fieldhouse will have reduced hours during spring break
IT is going to change the K: drive mapping so that it is the same for everyone across campuses starting…
The IRB plans to go live with Cayuse IRB this February 28th. This means that students and faculty will be…
Register now for this year’s Hendrickson Forum featuring Jonathan Haidt
Please update your COVID -19 vaccination information in the Health Portal.
Join members of the Saint Mary’s community to view Bring Her Home, a film about the Missing and Murdered Indigenous…
Grab your space today to join our alumni for Saint Mary’s Mock Interview Day & Networking Lunch being held on…
Save the date: March 9th “Science & Religion” Panel
A friendly reminder about the ping pong tournament tonight to benefit Tennis!
Communicating final details helps your event run smoothly 
Visiting college campuses during COVID-19 has been a challenge for prospective students and colleges alike.
Please join in prayer for the repose of the soul of Hannah Goman
The 20-voice select ensemble is directed by Dr. Patrick M. O’Shea, professor of music.
Do you have all of your textbooks?
Save the date: March 16th Leadership Panel
Join SGPP Faculty for an interactive workshop on strategies for creating relationship-rich learning environments online.
Join the Office of Advising and New Student Experience for an overview of Integratus 
Mark your calendars and come learn about the Google Suite and how to efficiently use the Google tools.
Learn 4 Simple Ways to Organize Your Gradebook
A look back at results from hockey, basketball, tennis, and track & field — as well as a look ahead…
Read more about Saint Mary’s exciting decision to enter into a 3 year pilot partnership with Straighterline, beginning this Spring!
Free for SMUMN Students – 5K and 10K Skate and Classic Races
Join SMUMN Ballroom Dance Club as we welcome instructors from Rochester
The Minnesota Private College Council is hosting a virtual Scholars Showcase on Feb. 22.
Jordan Keeley named HHA finalist
Based on the low transmission of COVID-19 on the Winona Campus to date, we are implementing changes to masking.
You can now upload your COVID-19 booster vaccination information to your Health Portal. 
Read here for information about a caring event and a caring Cardinal
After years of being divided between various locations, the Winona staff of GeoSpatial Services is all in one location in…
Saint Mary’s Z-Club offers weekly Zumba classes on Thursdays
Call ALL advisers – this free seminar is a great opportunity to learn new advising strategies and go back to…
Department of Fine and Performing Arts to present SPLaSH
The artist will be present and will be presenting a short artist talk in the Lillian Davis Hogan Galleries.
A reception in the Lillian Davis Hogan Galleries for Rochester artist Simon Hueslbeck’s Bodies of Water exhibition
Stop by Toner today between 11:30 AM – 1:30 PM to learn about Saint Mary’s Mock Interview Day & Networking…
Intramurals and the Tennis Team join forces for a tournament fundraiser of epic proportions
Tell us what makes Saint Mary’s unique, special, iconic!
The Office of Admission in collaboration with faculty in the Biology and Math Departments have completed the 3+2 Physician’s Assistant…
Engaging students in reflection is a cornerstone of education. Consider the reflection organizer and how to leverage tools in Canvas…
In this episode of Saint Mary’s Currents, assistant professor Ann Schissel, Ph.D. joins us to discuss depression and suicide, and…
A look back at results from hockey, basketball, tennis, and track & field — as well as a look ahead…
Declaration Day is on Monday, February 21 from 12:15-1:15 pm in the Toner Lounge.
In case you missed it or want to review, the last Cardinal Update Live is available for viewing.
Saint Mary’s Mock Interview Day & Networking Lunch being held on March 11 from 9 AM – 1:30 PM. 
An update on the Accounts Payable position vacancy
The Information Systems Department will be checking all on-campus phones to make sure they are correctly set for 911.
Saint Mary’s Students & Faculty Discuss Ethics of the “Metaverse”
Read here for stories about caring Cardinals at Saint Mary’s University of Minnesota.
Intramurals is taking new teams for basketball. Sign up!
Jenzabar will replace our current CAMS system in June of 2023.
Calling all faculty and staff academic advisers! Mark your calendar for upcoming training and workshops! 
Valentine’s Day Sale and Spring Break Information
Join Tracy Lysne and Sarah Haugen for an interactive workshop on strategies for creating and maintaining a relationship-rich learning environment.
Join us for prayer in the language of our Lord
Please join us!
This is a reminder to nominate a student for the Student Senate Student of the Month for January.
This Saturday, February 12 during halftime at the Cardinals’ basketball games
Asking for prayers of peace and comfort
SAC and RISE are going skiing at the nearby Coffeemill Ski Area (it’s only 30 minutes away)!
Join SMUMN Ballroom Dance Club for a beginner’s lesson on how to tango.
Thursday, February 24 from 9 AM – 2 PM at the Minneapolis Convention Center. Event is open to undergraduate students….
2 Cardinals land MIAC Athlete of Week honors
Hockey event promotes student-athlete character development 
Student Central will be closed until 10:30 am on Thursday Feb 10th for campus presentations
Career Services will be offering 2 Interviewing Strategies sessions on February 9. Sign up to attend  today via Handshake!
Join in person or virtually for important university updates Thursday, Feb. 10, from 9-10 a.m.
A look back at results from hockey, basketball, tennis, and track & field — as well as a look ahead…
London Study Abroad Info Session
Weekly Tech Tip
Twin Cities Campus Planning Engagement Sessions – Help shape the future of Saint Mary’s in Minneapolis
Show your love for Saint Mary’s and win great prizes! #smumnlove 
Badges of recognition were awarded to 15 faculty members within the College and SGPP in recognition of their work in…
Come hear Br. Paul’s powerful story 
Join Rustin Wolfe, Professor in Saint Mary’s Ed.D. in Leadership, as he explores the concept of flow in relation to…
Help shape the future of Saint Mary’s in Minneapolis
Funeral Arrangements for Priscilla Herbison
Thank you to all who participated is this year’s scavenger hunt!
Performance Center Space Reservations and bookings in Page Theatre and Figliulo Recital Hall
Please see here for more examples of caring Cardinals
Events, pictures, hours and more
What is your creative voice? Mosaic’s editors want to know! Submissions for Mosaic are now OPEN, and we want to…
In response to increased demand for COVID-19 tests in the Twin Cities, a new temporary testing site has opened in…
As we move forward into the month of February, we wanted to outline for employees our current COVID-19 protocols.
The Lillian Davis Hogan Galleries will be hosting Saint Mary’s Creates! Any faculty, staff, or administration member is invited to…
SMU student-athletes recognized for community service efforts
Patrick O’Shea, D.M.A., professor of music and director of choirs at Saint Mary’s, won the competition for the work “Ubi…
The next Cardinal Update Live is 9-10 a.m., Thursday, Feb. 10.  Get updates on financial planning, enrollment, the brand refresh,…
Join Abe Hedtke for the relaunch of the Blended Learning and Technology Professional Learning Community (PLC) this month!  
Students join Career Services today at 4 p.m. to work on developing a high impact resume.
Deadline for submissions – Student Senate Student of the Month
Update on S.O.U.L. trips for this year
Scott Sorvaag publishes article about Lasallian leadership
The Pep Band Club will be in Toner between 11:30 a.m. and 1:15 p.m. this Tuesday (2/1) through Thursday (2/3)…
Please remember in prayer Dr. Walter Ayotte ’53, who passed away on January 30, 2022.
Join Career Services virtually for High Impact Resumes – Wednesday, February 2 at 7 p.m.
Career Services is hosting upcoming workshops to help students get career-ready.
Join Career Services for High Impact Resumes – Tuesday, February 1 at 3:45 in Toner 9
Father Burns will celebrate Mass at 4:30 p.m. on February 3 for the feast of Saint Blaise.
David Lynch discusses the historical background of political polarization in the U.S. and how we as a country might be…
LeaderEthics Wisconsin is hosting a free webinar on Navigating the Political Divide by Effectively Serving State and Community
A look back at results from hockey, basketball, tennis, and track & field — as well as a look ahead…
In this weekly tech tip from the Instructional Technology Team you will learn how to specify due dates for different…
Sarah Haugen and Tracy Lysne, Program Directors in our M.Ed. in Teaching and Learning Program, discuss the impact of teacher…
The following students were named to the first semester 2021 Dean’s List at Saint Mary’s University of Minnesota.
The following Saint Mary’s University of Minnesota students completed requirements for bachelor of arts degrees in December 2021.
Learn what happened at Student Senate
Because of our low positivity rate from our student mass testing last week, the lay low period will end today,…
Interested in participating in mission formation programs?
The following communication about tuition is being shared with students in Friday’s newsletter.
Saint Mary’s is pleased to partner with several new high schools for dual credit
The COVID-19 vaccine booster clinic on the Winona campus has been rescheduled for Jan. 28, 2022.
Please pray for the repose of the soul and the consolation of the family of Ann Nowakowski.
Want to be on Student Senate? Now’s your chance!
Saint Mary’s University is listed No. 1 in Minnesota for its online MBA and its online business master’s programs
Any and all students are welcome to join us at 7:00 PM
Students need to follow this process for the reporting of postivr COVID-19 tests.
We have received confirmation that students are eligible to sign up for free COVID-19 tests from the federal government. 
There are still a few spot’s left! Sign-up now!
Succulents, Tie Dye, Bingo, and More – all happening this weeks with SAC! 
Series of events remembering Bl. James Miller and his legacy as we commemorate the 40th anniversary of his martyrdom.
This tech tip will show you how to edit a discussion board now that the format to discussion boards has…
 Annually, faculty and staff members must provide information on any conflicts of commitment.
Please remember in prayer Dr. James Fitzmaurice, who passed away December 13, 2021.
Information about W-2 and 1095-C forms for 2021.
Scavenger Hunt starts Monday, January 24
Collaborate, Enhance, and reIMAGINE your learners engagement
A look back at results from hockey, basketball and track & field — as well as a look ahead to…
Prayers are requested for Priscilla Herbison
Mass is available online if you are unable to come in person.
Please pray for the repose of the soul and the consolation of the family of Barbara Bush, mother of Alison…
Saint Mary’s University will celebrate our graduates in the Schools of Graduate and Professional Programs on Saturday, Jan. 22.
More stories about Cardinals caring for one another
Click here to find out more.
The resident assistant application is open until January 28th. 
Check here for information about COVID-19 testing results and reporting methods
Please see here for information on how to order your free COVID-19 tests from the federal government
The COVID-19 vaccine booster clinic scheduled for Jan. 21 has been cancelled.
Check Your Pay Document and Look For Your BCBS Card
Two Public Relations and Digital Media Students earn top two scholarships from professional organization
Saint Mary’s is welcoming Hannah Dégallier, a physician assistant with Winona Health, to our Jay Johnson Wellness Center on an…
Students can register now for PD114, a 1-credit MHFA course to be offered in the second half of the spring…
The university invites Winona campus faculty and staff to a COVID-19 vaccine booster clinic on Fri. Jan. 21, 2022
This video shows you how to upload a recorded video into Panopto and then embed that video in a module. 
The student activities committee is hosting SnowDaze virtually this year! 
Remember, Reflect, Celebrate
The university has adopted new quarantine and isolation protocols based on guidance from the CDC and MDH.
Mallory Knipe, DSW, joins podcast host Ben Rodgers to discuss her research and what it was like to present it…
CEF Dinner & Hall of Fame Awards Ceremony
Sign up today to be an advocate for the MN State Grant program
Athletic spectator policy change
The Alumni and Benefactor Engagement team is doing a 30 day social media campaign focused on what you love most…
A few key academic administrative appointments took place Jan. 3.
Quick tutorial on how to find past, concluded, or future courses
Applications for 2022-2023
Use your 2021 ID card until your 2022 card arrives.
A look back at results from hockey and basketball — as well as a look ahead to what’s on tap…
Prompt Reporting Helps Us Help Others
Please pray for repose of the souls of deceased family members and for Saint Mary’s community members who mourn their…
Nominations Due Soon
Bishop Patrick Heffron and Distinguised Lasallian Educator Awards Coming Soon
Campus Safety is transitioning uniforms from Premier Security to American Security.
Weekly Tech Tip
Updated Gostomski Fieldhouse Policies
RN-BSN program and human services major updates.
More stories about Cardinals caring for one another.
Wishing you and yours a happy holiday season!
Winona Campus Back To School Bookstore Hours and Information
Please pray for the family of Maggie Vanden Heuvel
Because of the rapid increase in COVID-19 and influenza cases, this event will be postponed.
CELT’s  Online Instructor Certification series has proven effective in supporting faculty to teach online and will continue in 2022. 
Learn more about what led to teacher burnout prior to the pandemic, how the pandemic has made the issue worse,…
This tech tip will show you how to fix the HTML editor in your syllabus.
Walk-in appointments are available at the COVID-19 testing event in the Hall of Fame Room today
Some safety tips to prevent COVID-19 transmission over the holidays
Saint Mary’s will induct 3 new members into the Sports Hall of Fame on March 12, 2022
Please join in prayer for the repose of the soul of Roy Fisher ’60, father of Bob Fisher ’97, M’06,…
The Taylor Richmond benefit dance committee is taking nominations for the benefit dance this spring!
More celebrations of caring at Saint Mary’s University of Minnesota.
Please prayer for the repose of the soul of Joseph Moss, a student in our EdD program who passed away…
Please reiew this article for information about the voluntary COVID-19 testing event on Thursday and Friday of this week.
The Gostomski Fieldhouse will have reduced hours during the holiday break
Volunteers are needed to assist with the voluntary COVID-19 testing event Dec. 16-17.
The university will offer a COVID-19 testing event on Dec. 16 and 17 for students and employees on the WInona…
Three students tested positive at the mandatory COVID-19 testing event for undergraduate students on the Winona Campus last week.
SMU’s Brooklyn Paulson was named MIAC Athlete of the Week
The theater program in London is being expanded to serve all Saint Mary’s undergraduate students beginning in Fall 2022.
The Future Health Professionals Club and American Red Cross Blood Drive was a huge success!
Bookstore rentals are due Tuesday, Dec. 21st
Rochester location will be known as the “Saint Mary’s University of Minnesota Rochester campus”
Watch this short video to learn how to copy specific content, modules in this case, from one course to another. 
A look back at results from hockey and basketball — as well as a look ahead to what’s on tap…
Watch an overview of the Anthology Faculty Portal experience.
American Red Cross and Future Health Professionals Blood Drive from11 am – 5pm Today. Sign up for a slot to…
Snow Storm predicted for Friday night into Saturday morning.
Please pray for alumnus William McGowen
Old library websites will no longer be available after December 22. You will be automatically redirected to the new libraries…
SMU’s Eli Szmanski was named CoSIDA Second-Team Academic All-America 
Let’s highlight members of our community who through, both big and small acts of caring, contribute to our community.
Events, pictures, hours and more
Come join us for an Advent Penance Service on Thursday, December 9 at 7:00 p.m. in Saint Thomas More Chapel
Come celebrate with us Saint Juan Diego and Our Lady of Guadalupe with a Spanish Mass and fiesta to follow.
While on Saint Mary’s Currents, Wieser discussed her research regarding inequities in the experience and outcomes of female and minority…
Students are doing great things right here on campus! RISE wants you to know. Learn about the leaders of Future…
Come see them perform at the basketball game halftimes on December 11th @1:45 and 3:45
A look back at results from hockey and basketball — as well as a look ahead to what’s on tap…
SMU’s Raheem Anthony & Kas Kingston were both named MIAC Athletes of the Week
Link to Dec. 2 Cardinal Update Live recording
All are welcome to celebrate the Solemnity of the Immaculate Conception. Father Burns will celebrate Mass at 12:15 p.m. in…
Thank you to all who helped make our weekend L.I.F.T. Retreat a success!
Bishop Patrick Heffron and Distinguised Lasallian Educator Awards Coming Soon
Students from the Winona campus adventured to the Mall of America over the weekend. 
Please join us!
Know a good leader and representative for your department? Nominate them today! 
Check out this week’s Canvas tip on activating the in-line preview feature.
Three of the four Saint Mary’s winter sports teams boast a pair of siblings playing together — bringing another dimension…
Join us at the Senior Class gathering on Wednesday evening, December 8. 
Join us Tuesday for Anthology’s demonstration on the Faculty and Student portal.
A Self-guided Lasallian Advent Retreat Opportunity
The CDC has noted an increase in influenza cases among young adults, especially in college and university settings.
Prayer card delivery is underway.
The university will host a mandatory COVID-19 testing event for all full and part-time students on the Winona campus, excluding…
Employee cases of COVID-19 are increasing so we ask all employee to recommit to COVID protocols.
Winona County is hosting COVID vaccination clinics for first, second, and booster shots.
Students are doing great things right here on campus! RISE wants you to know. 
Just a friendly reminder that all indoor spectators MUST be masked
The Saint Mary’s Concert Band will present “Celbrate Christmas” on Sunday, Dec. 12, at 4 p.m.
Bingo, Mall of America, and More! 
The Saint Mary’s University Department of Music will present “Lessons and Carols” on Saturday, Dec. 11, at 7:30 p.m.
The Jazz Ensemble and Jazz Combo 1 will present “Holiday Hits” on Friday, Dec. 10.
Cardinal Update Live will be 9-10 a.m. Thursday, Dec. 2, on the Winona and Twin Cities Campus as well as…
Father Burns will celebrate a 12:15 p.m. Mass on December 8, to celebrate the feast of the Immaculate Conception
A look back at results from hockey and basketball — as well as a look ahead to what’s on tap…
Please pray for the repose of the soul of Patricia Sommerville 
Check out the Canvas tip of the week and what is coming up this week for trainings!
Nguyen, Falkman, Matthews all named Third-Team All-Region
Tuesday, November 30, the Alumni and Benefactor Engagement Team along with Cardinals Connecting Cardinals will be hosting Christmas in the…
A look back at results from hockey and basketball — as well as a look ahead to what’s on tap…
The CDC recently expanded eligibility for COVID-19 booster shots to all adults.  
The CDC recently expanded eligibility for COVID-19 booster shots to all adults.  
Six Saint Mary’s science students presented research at the Seven Rivers Undergraduate Research Symposium Nov. 12.
Working with the Winona Community Foundation, now anyone can contribute to the Winona Daily News Above & Beyond Scholarship Fund…
Join Leya Hale as she explores the power of storytelling to help Indigenous communities reclaim their power.
To honor and celebrate the work of our students on voter registration and turnout, join us for the 2020 Democracy…
Get ready to throw those Teddy Bears on Friday, Dec. 3!
A look back at results from hockey and basketball — as well as a look ahead to what’s on tap…
This tech tip will show you how to add announcement preview to your course homepage. 
A few extra precautions will help us enjoy the holidays while protecting the health of our family, friends, and communities.
The Gostomski Fieldhouse will have reduced hours during the week of Thanksgiving
Join us Nov 30th for the Christmas in the Alumni Room Photoshoot Fundraiser! 
The accounts payable processing cutoff time will be changed for the week of Thanksgiving.
Starting Monday, 11/22
Six members of the Saint Mary’s University Gamma Epsilon Chapter of Beta Beta Beta Honor Society were awarded Research Foundation…
Winona Campus Bookstore Hours for Thanksgiving Break
Alex Vaslow asks the Saint Mary’s community to pray for his grandmother, who recently passed away from COVID-19.
Watch an overview of the Jenzabar Faculty Portal experience.
The U.S. Department of Education allocated $2.5 million to Saint Mary’s for direct student grants under the American Rescue Plan…
This is a final reminder to vote for Student Senate Student of the Month
No payment is required upon entry but $5 donations are greatly appreciated: details below!
Criminal Justice Club invites you to hear Graduate Alumni, Jim Schaffer M’02, speak about his experiences
SAC’s 5th Annual Cardinal Fest, November 13, brought in over $300 in donations and over 400 SMUMN community members! 
Please pray for the repose of the soul of Dennis John Ansell 
No payment is required upon entry but $5 donations are greatly appreciated: details below!
Opening Thursday November 18th, our annual undergraduate art exibition in the Lillian Davis Hogan Gallery
Only 4 days remain to submit benefit changes for 2022 Open Enrollment.
Hear from current and former Saint Mary’s students about how they are using digital badging to stand out in an…
This week, Saint Mary’s will host 43 religious sisters from the U.S.-Latin American Sisters Exchange Program
Project Ideas for Student Senate Capital Improvements Campaign
This is a reminder to Faculty and Staff to vote for Student Senate Student of the Month
Weekly Tech Tip
Special activities and fun prizes will be available during the week of November 15th-19th in recognition of International Education Week…
Adopt an attitude of gratitude this Thanksgiving by adopting these COVID-19 tips for the holiday
The Minnesota Department of Health (MDH) recommends COVID-19 boosters for college students and employees.  
A look back at results from hockey & cross country and releases on all the post-season soccer awards — as…
Join us for the 2nd of three demos to provide feedback as we work to choose our next SIS/CRM.
Szymanski named CoSIDA Academic All-Distrcit
Open enrollment is active through Friday, November 19th. If you wish to make changes or continue your FSA you’re required…
Watch a 18 minute overview of their faculty portal experience.
The Veterans Day ceremony scheduled for today, Nov. 11, at 11 a.m. has been cancelled due to inclement weather.
Nguyen earns MIAC Defensive Player of the Year honors as 5 Cardinals land 6 MIAC awards
Fall semester Integratus Capstone classes have been engaged with various community projects on and off campus.
Thanks to the support of faculty and staff, 23 students participated in the first etiquette experience on November 4. 
Sessler, Szymanski land MAIC soccer honors
Brittany (Therrien) Kearn ’14 has been recognized by the Minnesota Social Service Association (MSSA) with the 2021 Outstanding Staff Achievement…
Please pray for Michael Rafferty ’99
Join SAC for Cardinal Fest 2021, this Saturday from 4-8pm in the Gostomski Fieldhouse! 
Friendly reminder that indoor spectators MUST be masked
Opportunity to purchase a CD of original student compositions to benefit the diocese of Lake Charles
Please pray for Joel Boone
The new brand identity will launch in winter 2022. Plan accordingly when ordering print materials.
Saint Mary’s to celebrate Veterans Day with a ceremony at 11 a.m. on Thursday, Nov. 11, at 11 a.m. at…
Pierre Toussaint and Juliette Noel
Photos have been updated in the staff directory! Learn how to request changes.
A look back at results from volleyball, soccer, cross country and hockey — as well as a look ahead to…
The university announces an easing of masking requirements on its campuses.
The Institutional Review Board is currently developing a new IRB application process with a cloud-based software called Cayuse IRB. 
Thank you to everyone who contributed to the Culture of Life Baby Bottle Campaign
Saint Mary’s students enjoyed conversation with Tim Penny, former United States Representative and Minnesota State Senator.
Check out the Canvas tip of the week and what is coming up this week for trainings!
Join us for the first of three demos to provide feedback as we work to choose our next SIS/CRM.
The Student Activities Committee had a successful month of October full events!
McNally lands MAIC volleyball honor
Diversity Café will change its format for Spring 2022, and this has implications for students wishing to participate for a…
Nominate a student to be recognized as the Student Senate Student of the Month
A Celebration of Life was recently held for Dr. Christina Huck, former administrator on our Twin Cities Campus. If you…
Effective Nov. 1, Saint Mary’s modified its student compliance framework for the COVD vaccine requirement to exempt students in online…
Soccer’s post-season run comes to end
Check out this month’s events, specials, pictures, and recipe inspiration
View an overview of the state of digital badging at the university and what’s to come that was delivered to…
The Cardinal women’s soccer team is headed to the MIAC Tournament Semifinals!
Student voting rates in the 2020 election increased significantly
The Office of Institutional Effectiveness (OIE) is pleased to announce the release of the 2020-2021 University Fact Book. 
The Office of Institutional Effectiveness (OIE) is pleased to announce the release of the 2020-2021 University Fact Book. 
Benefit open enrollment will begin Monday, Nov 8th and run through Nov 19th
All Saint Mary’s university women including faculty, staff, and emerita are invited to complete the Lasallian Women’s Needs Assessment survey
Come celebrate with us! T-shirts, Decals, and Resources – There’s something for everyone!
You are invited to participate in 3 online zoom meetings and to provide feedback on our potential new SIS/CRM Solution…
Character and Virtue Education Speaker Series: Presentation by Julie Nagashima Ph.D. 
Sock Drive sponsored by Character and Virtue Education
The Cardinal women’s soccer team is headed to the MIAC Tournament Semifinals!
The 39 Steps will be performed Thursday through Saturday, Nov. 4-6, in Page Theatre.
Drs. Kathryn LaBore and Marina Rosenthal Receive an Institutional Courage Research Grant
A look back at results from volleyball, soccer, cross country and hockey — as well as a look ahead to…
In this weekly tech tip from the Instructional Technology Team you will be shown how to set up Canvas so…
Join us for a prayer service at the Student Memorial between the library and Skemp on Tuesday, November 2 at…
Consider a COVID test if you celebrated Halloween with a large crowd
Last chance to purchase your tickets to the MN United game on October 31 using St. Mary’s Discount! 
Please pray for the repose of the soul of James “Jamie” Anton Bawek ’92.
Faculty and staff have access to the student Saint Mary’s Today.
Undergraduate student Matthew Schell is competing at the National FFA Convention in Indianapolis.
The Phillips West Neighborhood Organization invites neighbors to join us for our Fall Fest and Annual Meeting on Saturday, Nov….
Kathryn Bates, Saint Mary’s senior public relations major, shares the story of Sam Wersch, junior musical theatre major and dance…
Head to the Saint Mary’s gym on Tuesday, Nov. 2, for the second annual Night In The Nest basketball tip-off…
Check out the short video showcasing the migration into Canvas and updates.
Many thanks to all of the students, faculty, and staff who helped on Saturday for the annual Lasallian Day of…
Saint Mary’s was asked to share its innovative approaches to badging in two sessions at UPCEA Regions 2021 Conference.
Saint Mary’s will host a celebration of life for Christina Huck, Ph.D., on Saturday, Oct. 30, at 1 p.m. on…
School of Education volunteers clean up Winona-area highway.
A look back at results from volleyball and soccer — as well as a look ahead to what’s on tap…
Join us at noon on Oct. 28 to discuss “Lead from the Outside: How to Build Your Future and Make…
2021 Minnesota Educator Academy (“MEA”) a Success! 
October is Respect Life month. Join Campus Ministry on Oct. 25 for a day of prayer and fasting for a greater respect…
The photographer has been instructed not to interrupt classes while visiting the two campuses. 
Employee recognition nominations are due on Oct. 29.
The pandemic changed the game, but the members of two Saint Mary’s teams were ready to compete.
Don’t miss the SMU hockey Ice Breaker on Saturday, Oct. 23!
Sign up for the Winona flu clinic tomorrow, Thursday, Oct. 21, from 7:30 a.m. to noon.
Want to know more about our student body?
Michael Phipps, Recruitment Coordinator with Lasallian Volunteers, will be present on campus through Friday, October 22nd.
Clothesline Project to be displayed in the Winona Campus plaza in Observance of Domestic Violence Awareness Month.
Andrea Carroll-Glover and Carrie Wandler recently presented their work in digital badging at the annual Association for Continuing Higher Education…
Saint Mary’s will host a celebration of life for Christina Huck, Ph.D., on Saturday, Oct. 30, at 1 p.m. on…
A look back at results from volleyball, soccer, and cross country — as well as a look ahead to what’s…
The Equity In Athletics Disclosure Act Report is available.
Featuring an opportunity to adopt puppies from Alma Tails of Hope Animal Rescue.
Get the correct links for the advising workshops happening this week and next. 
This sock drive is sponsored by Character and Virtue Education.
Updated HR policies and the employee handbook are now posted to the HR webpage.
Bring in all your extra travel size soaps, lotions, shampoos, and toothpaste to help Ghana Birthright.  
Tuition exchange applications for the 2022-23 school year are due to the HR Office today.
Submit employee recognition nominations by Friday, Oct. 29.
A record number of elderly are needing help with yard work. Please sign up soon!
A ceramics exhibit is opening Thursday, Oct. 14.
Please assume you have filed your vaccination or exemption documents correctly.
Sign up for a flu shot in Winona.
Hosted by Student Success and First Generation Initiative Center, all faculty advisers are invited to advising workshops before this advising…
If you are a student, faculty, or staff who identifies as first-gen (neither of your parents completed a four-year degree),…
Check the Winona Campus bookstore hours during fall break.
Integratus, the general education program at the undergraduate College at Saint Mary’s University of Minnesota, now has its own email address:…
School of Education licensure programs receive stellar review from PELSB.
Celebrate with the Alumni and Benefactor Engagement team on National Dessert Day.
The Saint Mary’s baseball and women’s hockey teams were awarded $2,500 “Character in Athletics” grants to carry out their character…
The annual Lasallian Day of Service is coming Saturday, Oct. 23. Faculty, staff, and students are invited to serve our…
Saint Mary’s University will publicly dedicate Aquinas Hall, a newly renovated $17 million facility, at 2 p.m. Friday, Oct. 15.
Instructional Technology is offering the following trainings
Photos from our recent professional sessions on both campuses will be added to the directory soon. You can also view…
A look back at results from volleyball and soccer — as well as a look ahead to what’s on tap for…
Check out our progress on the transition to new student information systems.
The SMU outdoor track will be closed from Oct. 7-10
If you missed yesterday’s State of the University address or would like to review, the recording is now available. 
A shortage in paper supply and changes from the postal service are impacting projects and timelines. Plan ahead when requesting…
The deadline for uploading proof of a COVID-19 vaccination for filing an exemption is this Friday, Oct. 8th.
The Character and Virtue Education Speaker Series continues Oct. 18. 
Check out the upcoming events for this weekend: Chalk the Walk, Bingo, Mario Kart, and Disc Golf.
The Saint Mary’s outdoor track on the Winona Campus will be closed from Oct. 7-10.
Updated HR Policies and Employee Handbook Now Posted to the HR Webpage
The School of Education (SGPP) is pleased to welcome a new special education program director.
Check out the newsletter from your dining team with upcoming events, specials, pictures, and a recipe!
To stay up to date with events, SAC sends out emails with event calendars, sign up links, and more. Add…
Correctly wearing a proper mask inside university buildings is a step you must take to stay safe and to keep…
The production will be performed Thursday, Oct. 7 through Saturday, Oct. 9. 
If you’ve recently had a COVID-19 infection you should still get vaccinated.  There’s no need to wait!
The 2021 version of Saint Mary’s University’s business policies are now available for review.
A gentle reminder that the deadline for submission of your COVID-19 vaccination information or your medical or non-medical exemption is…
Janet Heukeshoven and Eric Heukeshoven, from our Fine and Performing Arts Department, welcomed their first grandchild into the world.
Joshua Perry made the closest guess from the recent contest in the Merle Wilberding ’66 Alumni Room.
The Culture of Life club is having a Baby Bottle campaign to raise money to support mothers and babies in…
Calling all faculty! Student success is looking for feedback on advising training for spring 2022.
Drs. Carolyn Ayers, Kyle Black, and Nicole Ciulla presented “Failures and Successes in Capstone Community Engagement Projects” at AGLS.
Results from volleyball and soccer.
Saint Mary’s is committed to assisting all members of the Saint Mary’s community in providing for their own safety and…
This season’s performances are full of humor, variety, and heartfelt surprises.
The public dedication of Aquinas Hall will be at 2 p.m. Friday, Oct. 15. 
Requests for student volunteers are due by Friday, Oct. 15. 
The next State of the University will begin at 12:15 p.m. Thursday, Oct. 7. 
Get discounted tickets to the Minnesota United Game on Sunday, October 31. FREE bus from the Winona Campus! 
Results from the women’s soccer game.
The university has announced protocols for those who fail to comly with the requirement to upload prrof of a COVID-19…
Free movie night for the Winona Campus community.
Results from the men’s soccer game.
Welcome Kerri Carlson Anderson, director of Career Services.
How many donors supported the Saint Mary’s Fund from July 2020 through May 2021?
Check out all the Cardinal action from last week, and preview the upcoming schedule of events.
Jonathon Krull, a Saint Mary’s undergraduate student, was recently appointed chair of the Minnesota Association of Private College Students.
Registration is open for the virtual cohort Diversity and Human Dignity series.
You are invited to an open house Monday, Sept. 27, at 12:15 p.m. See our newly renovated space, connect to…
See what’s happening during Family Weekend this weekend.
Drive-in movie, fun and games, Mass and donuts … everyone is welcome.
The Minnesota Department of Health has released tips on how to use the Docket app to access your MN immunization…
The billboards highlight our new B.S. in Nursing program and showcase our latest U.S. News and World Report ranking as…
New mobile app gives Minnesotans access to their immunization records faster.
Reminder: Submit proof of vaccination or file an exemption by Friday, Oct. 8.
Jazz at Saint Mary’s is planning a full season of performances for the 2021-22 academic year.
The Teaching Fellows program allows up to 12 course-contracted faculty to professional development designed to promote excellence in teaching and…
Four teams from GeoSpatial Services traveled to Alaska this summer for mapping projects related to the National Wetland Inventory. 
Join in welcoming our newest members of the president’s cabinet with an upcoming meet and greet on the Twin Cities…
See what events Saint Mary’s has planned for Family Weekend 2021. 
This interactive workshop will explore how to create relationship-rich environments that enhance learning, motivation, and belonging.
Visit us in the lower level of the Michael H. Toner Student Center during Family Weekend.
The week in review and a look ahead.
Saint Mary’s athletics unveils this year’s Best In The Nest award winners.
Answer the burning questions in this webinar for parents, students, and educators about vaping and tobacco use.
New faculty and staff or anyone looking to update their existing photo will have upcoming opportunities to have a professional…
We are writing to eliminate any confusion that may exist, particularly for hourly employees, regarding the upcoming Mass of the…
The Lasallian Literati book club will meet next on Thursday, Oct. 28.
The Saint Mary’s University Concert Band and Jazz Ensemble will perform a free Family Weekend concert at its Winona Campus…
Customize your Canvas notifications and re-discover the dashboard experience.
This is a reminder to our faculty, staff, and students of the many safety protocols put in place on our…
The Winona Daily News shared an op-ed from Brian Schmisek, Saint Mary’s provost and dean of faculties. 
Lutheran Social Service of Minnesota, an organization near our Twin Cities Campus, is seeking donations to help refugees.
Alisa DiSalvo has been working as a course-contracted accounting and finance associate professor, but she will transition to full-time this…
A new, shared website has been created to unify Winona and Twin Cities library services.
Saint Mary’s is excited to announce an expanded academic partnership with Knack, a leader in online peer-to-peer tutoring.
Over 750 credentials have been accepted and shared throughout professional and social media networks in the School of Business and…
There is a one-stop way to keep up with all the Saint Mary’s sports action — including previews, recaps, and…
Various training opportunities are available for Canvas and other instructional tools.
As a part of Welcome Weekend on the Winona Campus, all faculty are invited to attend a dessert reception with…
Saint Mary's Today articles are written and posted by faculty and staff throughout the organization. While Marketing and Communication has the right to remove content deemed inappropriate, Marketing and Communication staff are not responsible for editing content prior to publishing.
See all locations ›
