St. Louis University official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://www.slu.edu/summer-and-extended-studies/summer-camps/index.php?rec=44
Registration 
Registration Opens: 1/5/2024
Dates:
July 15-18, 2024
Times:
9 a.m. - 4:15 p.m. (no camp on Friday)
Cost:
$495
SLU Discounts:
10% discount for current SLU faculty, staff, alumni, and students
Ages:

Grades:
9-12
Eligibility:
All
Description:
Artificial intelligence has exploded and the skills needed to master these technologies have never been more in demand and productive for learners at every age. In this camp students will learn about AI (generative and traditional), and tightly related topics in Machine Learning (ML) on multiple levels; conceptual, ethical and logical (actually coding algorithms to demonstrate how Machine Learning analyzes data to produce results). 

This camp introduces students to one of the most exciting new technology frontiers in the past twenty years.

Students will first spend time understanding exactly what AI, ML and Generative AI are, and discuss a brief history of how we arrived here. Next, we will introduce basic skills and models related to AI/ML, including how to break down complex problems into simpler sub-tasks. Then camp attendees will code algorithms to generate results, using plots and other data visualization tools. This exposes students to basic analytic coding (no prior experience required). Finally, we will apply this foundational learning to experimenting with generative AI tools such as ChatGPT, Bard and others.
Upon completing this camp, the student should 
•	Have a clear understanding of fundamental concepts related to AI, ML, Generative AI 
•	Have established a knowledge base for extending their learning and development via further coursework or self-directed study in the areas of AI and ML
•	Have gained direct technical experience with fundamental skills such as problem analysis, through coding solutions and presenting results (data visualization)
•	Have gained/enhanced their direct technical experience with Generative AI platforms such as ChatGPT and Bard.

No prior programming experience required – basic keyboarding ability and nothing more. 
Camp attendees must bring their own computer; Windows or Apple / Mac work equally well.
iPads/tablets will not work
Students must have registered for a Google ID prior to camp.
Meals:
No
Overnight:
No
Before care:
N/A
After care:
N/A
Location:
Saint Louis University 1 N Grand Blvd 
Contact:
Summer At SLUsummer@slu.edu314-977-3534
