St. Meinrad College official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://www.saintmeinrad.edu/student-resources/academic-regulations/
 Student Resources
Click on these links to learn more.
Grading
Credit Hours
Transfer of Credits
Class Attendance
Audit
Exemptions
Alternate Courses
Students with Disabilities
Academic Probation
Independent Study Courses
Formation Workshops Taken For Credit
Plagiarism
Artificial Intelligence Policy
Transcripts
Confidentiality and Access to Student Records
At the end of each term, a report of academic achievement is sent to all seminarians and, with their permission, to their respective bishops or religious superiors. The quality of work done, as shown by classroom participation, papers, tests and examinations, is recorded in letters having these official interpretations:
A student who receives an "F" earns no credit for the course and must repeat the course if it is required (500 level). If a failed course is repeated and a passing grade is earned, the "F" will show on the transcript, but will not be computed in the cumulative grade point average. A student who receives two "F"s in one semester will be dismissed for poor scholarship.
I - Incomplete: An "I" is automatically changed to an "F" if work is not completed within six weeks of the end of the term in which the "I" was received. The exact date is stated in the official calendar.
P - Passing: Credit hours are granted, but the grade is not calculated in the cumulative grade point average.
W - Withdrew from course:  A student may withdraw from a course at any point before the established deadline listed in the academic calendar. A "W" will appear on the student's transcript and no credit hours will be granted for the course. Under extraordinary circumstances a student may petition the dean for permission to withdraw from a course after the deadline and before final grades are due to the registrar.
In keeping with standard academic practice, instruction at Saint Meinrad Seminary and School of Theology is measured in terms of credit hours. Each credit hour is equivalent to about 50 minutes of formal instruction and two hours of out-of-class student work per week per semester (13 to 14 weeks). Alternative-format courses (weekend courses, Web-hybrid courses, etc.) are designed to be roughly equivalent to this standard.
Credits earned at other accredited theological seminaries or graduate schools of theology may be applied toward a Saint Meinrad Seminary and School of Theology degree if the following conditions are met:
The student earned a grade of "B-" or above; and
The course is comparable to one taught at Saint Meinrad.
As a general rule, transfer credits may not exceed one-half of the credits required for either degree.
Each instructor will determine the regulation for class attendance. As a rule, students are expected to attend all classes. Absences from class should be approved by the professor in advance. It is the primary responsibility of the professor to grant the permission.

Students may audit any class with the permission of the instructor and the Academic Dean. There is an official record made of audits.
A student may petition for exemption from any required course by using forms available from the Office of the Registrar. When an exemption is granted, only the course requirement is satisfied. No credit hours are granted.

With the permission of the Academic Dean and the professor, a student may substitute an approved alternate course for any required course.
Saint Meinrad is committed to the success of every student. Appropriate accommodations are made for students with documented disabilities on a case-by-case basis. Students with disabilities are encouraged to inform their professors or the administration of the special challenges they face. School officials will endeavor to implement effective courses of action to ensure that the students in question have an equal opportunity to participate in all curricular and extra-curricular activities.
A student is placed on academic probation for two reasons:
A required course has been failed, and/or
The student's grade point average falls below "C" (2.0).
A student is removed from academic probation when the required course has been repeated and passed or when the cumulative grade point average reaches 2.0 or above. An MDiv student who remains on academic probation for three consecutive semesters will be dismissed for poor scholarship.
Master of Divinity students may take no more than two independent study elective courses in pursuit of their degree. Independent study courses must meet these requirements:
Three types of courses are possible: tutorial, guided study and project.
The amount of time devoted to the independent study should be at least the same as for an equivalent credit course.
The student, in collaboration with the course instructor, generates a syllabus that identifies the goal, the outcomes, the practices and the assessment of the course.
The student must attain signatures of approval from the faculty member directing the study and the Academic Dean.

Forms for registering for independent study elective courses may be obtained from the Office of the Registrar.
While usually not-for-credit, spiritual and pastoral formation workshops may be taken for one credit on a pass/fail basis. If a student has registered for credit and attended the workshop, the last day to drop the credit requirement is three days after the conclusion of the workshop. After that time, failure to complete the workshop requirements by the instructor’s due date will result in an “F” on one’s transcript. There is no tuition refund.
Saint Meinrad Seminary and School of Theology is committed to creating an intellectual environment in which both faculty and students participate in the free and honorable pursuit of knowledge. Therefore, all work submitted by students is presumed to be their own. Any violation of academic integrity - cheating, plagiarism or collusion - is considered a serious offense. View Statement on Academic Integrity
Artificial Intelligence (AI) models, especially Large Language Models (LLMs), are powerful and evolving tools for generating many kinds of text and other content that mimic human compositions. Interacting through a conversational ‘chat’ interface, users can ask LLMs to answer questions about a topic, summarize sources of information, generate links between topics, suggest ways to improve grammar and style of user-inputted text, compose essays, emails, homilies, poems, etc., and engage in human-like discussion. The impact of generative AI on higher education continues to unfold, with many potential benefits for and disruptions of traditional pedagogy.View Policy on Artificial Intelligence
Transcripts may be requested from the Office of the Registrar. Requests must be signed by the former student. Phone or email requests cannot be honored. Official transcripts must be sent directly to the designated school or organization. A $5 fee is charged for each transcript.Request a transcript
The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) affords students certain rights with respect to their education records. These rights include:
The right to inspect and review the student's education record within 45 days of the day the school receives a request for access. Students should submit to the Registrar, Academic Dean or other appropriate official written requests that identify the record(s) they wish to inspect. The school official will make arrangements for access and notify the student of the time and place where the records may be inspected. If the school official to whom the request was submitted does not maintain the records, that official shall advise the student of the correct official to whom the request should be addressed.
The right to request the amendment of the student's education records that the student believes is inaccurate. Students may ask the school to amend a record that they believe is inaccurate. They should write the school official responsible for the record, clearly identify the part of the record they want changed, and specify why it is inaccurate. If the school decides not to amend the record as requested by the student, the school will notify the student of the decision and advise the student of his or her right to a hearing regarding the request for amendment. Additional information regarding the hearing procedures will be provided to the student when notified of the right to a hearing.
The right to consent to disclosures of personally identifiable information contained in the student's education records, except to the extent that FERPA authorizes disclosure without consent. One exception, which permits disclosure without consent, is disclosure to school officials with legitimate educational interests. A school official is a person employed by Saint Meinrad Seminary and School of Theology in an administrative, supervisory, academic, research, or support staff position (including law enforcement unit personnel and health staff); a person serving on the Board of Trustees; or a student serving on an official committee such as disciplinary or grievance committee or assisting another school official in performing his or her tasks. A school official has a legitimate educational interest if the official needs to review an education record in order to fulfill his or her professional responsibility.
The right to file a complaint with the U.S. Department of Education concerning alleged failures by the School to comply with the requirements of FERPA. The name and address of the Office that administers FERPA are: Family Policy Compliance Office, U.S. Department of Education, 400 Maryland Avenue, SW, Washington, DC 20202-4605.
The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act requires that Saint Meinrad Seminary and School of Theology, with certain exceptions, obtain written consent prior to the disclosure of personally identifiable information from a student's education records. However, Saint Meinrad may disclose appropriately designated "directory information" without written consent, unless the school has been advised in writing in the registrar's office to the contrary. A student may file a written restrainer with the registrar requesting that disclosure of this information not be made without written permission.
Directory information includes, but is not limited to, the information in the Registry: name, address, telephone number, email address, home parish, affiliation and class listing. Date/place of birth, major field of study, dates of attendance, degrees, honors, parents' names and address, along with the student's photograph, are also considered directory information although they are not listed in the Registry.
Saint Meinrad Seminary and School of Theology will always follow ecclesiastical law as it relates to disclosure of information regarding seminary students.
Saint Meinrad Seminary and School of Theology200 Hill DriveSt. Meinrad, IN 47577
Maps & Directions
 812-357-6611
Contact Us
Website Feedback
Privacy Policy
Returns and Refunds
Jobs
Donate
Monastery
Abbey Caskets
Library
Alumni
CareNotes
Gift Shop
News
Events
Podcast
Newsletters
Blog
Photo Galleries
Copyright © 2024 Saint Meinrad Seminary and School of Theology
 Click a heading on the left to reveal related pages
