State University of New York at Binghamton official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://www.binghamton.edu/clt/resources/chat-gpt-info.html
For information on using AI resources in Zoom (AI Companion), see below.
The dawn of next-generation generative Artificial Intelligence (AI) technologies is
                  reshaping the educational landscape, offering numerous prospects and considerations
                  for our teaching approaches and student interactions. As we explore these new technologies,
                  we at Binghamton University remain committed in our dedication to working collaboratively
                  with faculty to support student learning and success.
ChatGPT is part of a growing array of generative AI platforms that have captured academic
                  and media interest. This AI platform leverages predictive algorithms to generate or
                  enhance a diverse range of written materials, from research essays and computer scripts
                  to imaginative poetry and comprehensive reports.  While the results can be useful,
                  it's essential to recognize potential problems they pose to learning and teaching
                  and to thoughtfully approach their use (or prohibition of their use) in our teaching. 
For clarity, within this FAQ, "ChatGPT" signifies the freely accessible online chat
                  platform underpinned by OpenAI's GPT architecture. We'd like to emphasize that ChatGPT
                  represents just a fragment of the broader spectrum of emerging generative AI tools.
August 2023: Below please find a list of suggested syllabus statements that can provide
                  guidance for language concerning the use or restrictions of AI technology in the course.
AI resources in Zoom (AI Companion)December 5, 2023
Meeting summary with AI Companion:
https://support.zoom.us/hc/en-us/articles/15088797434893-Enabling-Zoom-IQ-Meeting-Summary
AI Companion Questions:
https://support.zoom.us/hc/en-us/articles/17396873863309
Should I use one of the ChatGPT detection tools such as GPTZero?August 15, 2023
The University discourages the use of AI-detection software programs on student work.
                  Such software programs have been found to be unreliable and to incorrectly flag instances
                  of AI use in human-written content. Sharing your students’ work with these software
                  programs without their permission also raises a range of privacy and ethical concerns. 
                  Instructors are encouraged to continue to use their traditional methods for detection
                  of potential academic misconduct, including meeting with a student to discuss their
                  assignment in person.
Please note: The University no longer has access to the AI Writing Detection Indicator
                     that was accessible through Turnitin on Brightspace. This was part of a pilot for
                     the Spring 2023 semester only.
Using ChatGPT in your course.August 9, 2023
If you decide to use ChatGPT or other AI systems in your courses, please consider
                  the following:
Link for ideas on using ChatGPT in your classroom:
https://teaching.utoronto.ca/resources/generative-artificial-intelligence-in-the-classroom/
Special thanks to the University of Toronto for allowing us to modify their content
                  on ChatGPT:
https://www.viceprovostundergrad.utoronto.ca/strategic-priorities/digital-learning/special-initiative-artificial-intelligence/
Last Updated: 12/5/23
