Touro College official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://www.touro.edu/departments/cetl/events/faculty-development-promise-of-prompts-82923.php
This interactive workshop will involve participants experimenting with two different AI chatbots, prompting them to offer assistance with academic teaching and writing tasks. First, we will frame various categories of prompts. Then, as a group, we will discover optimized prompts to enhance our work with students and elevate our contributions within the larger academic community.
Jasmin (Bey) Cowin, Ed.D., is a Fulbright Scholar and completed her Education Policy Fellowship at the EPFP™ Institute. She serves as an Associate Professor and TESOL/BLE Practicum Coordinator at the Graduate School of Education, Touro University New York.
 
 
Marcella Bullmaster-Day, Ed.D., is an Associate Professor at Touro University Graduate School of Education in New York. Her enduring interests are learning, teaching, and supporting others in learning and teaching. She has worked as a teacher, school principal, mentor, curriculum designer, university professor, associate dean, and professional development consultant in urban educational contexts.
View the Zoom Recording and PPTs
© 2024 Touro University
Touro University treats all employees, job applicants, and students without unlawful consideration of race, ethnicity, religious creed, color, national origin, ancestry, sex (including pregnancy, childbirth or related medical condition), age, disability, medical condition, marital status, genetic information, sexual orientation, gender, gender identity, gender expression, military service or veteran status, citizenship status, or any other classification protected by applicable federal, state or local laws. We are committed to ensuring the fulfillment of this policy in all decisions, including but not limited to, recruitment, the administration of educational programs and activities, hiring, compensation, training and apprenticeship, placement, promotion, upgrading, demotion, downgrading, transfer, layoff, suspension, expulsion and termination, and all other terms and conditions of admission, matriculation, and employment. See full non-discrimination statement with contact info.
