Union College Nebraska official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://ucollege.edu/pa/apply
To apply to the Union College Master of Physician Assistant Studies Program, use CASPA, Central Application Service for Physician Assistants—a service that provides a single application you can submit to PA programs across the country. Get started here.
Applications are typically initiated after May 1 and must be submitted and given the designation of "completed" through CASPA by September 1. 
PA Program applications are processed at Union College after they are verified, and interviews will be granted from May-September.
If you have questions regarding the online application process, please contact CASPA directly at https://caspa.liaisoncas.com/applicant-ux/#/login or call 617-612-2080.
If you have any difficulties completing the application process, do not hesitate to contact us directly.
Union College does not require the GRE, and a supplemental application is not required.
The Union College PA Program expects applicants to submit applications that are their own work, including but not limited to, personal statements, essays, and descriptions of work and education activities and events. Any work not written by the applicant or modified, in whole or part, by any other person or any generative artificial intelligence platform, technology, system or process, including but not limited to ChatGPT (collectively, “Generative AI”) will be disqualified and removed from the applicant pool by the Union College PA Program.
The Union College PA Program reserves the right to use platforms, technology, systems, and processes that detect content submitted in CASPA and/or provided to the Union College PA Program that was created, written, and/or modified, in whole or part, through the use of Generative AI. 
(The above information is only for master’s level students. If you're interested in a bachelor’s degree, please go to PA Prospective Students.)
Admission into the PA Program is limited and competitive. Please make sure you understand the requirements thoroughly before applying.
Bachelor's degree—You must complete a bachelor's degree from an accredited college/university (any major) and the PA Program prerequisite requirements. All prerequisites must be completed by August of the year of admission. All college transcripts must be received by CASPA by September 1. See the list of prerequisite classes below.
(Note: Students in Union's Biomedical Science, Advanced Pre-PA Emphasis program are exempt from the Bachelor's degree requirement.) 
GPA—You must have GPAs (cumulative and science) of at least 3.0 on a 4.00 scale for all college work. All transcripts (domestic and abroad) will be included. 
Technical Standards—You must demonstrate proficiency in a variety of cognitive, problem solving, tactile, communicative, and interpersonal skills.
Any candidate who is admitted to the Union College PA Program will be required to sign a statement that certifies that they have read, fully understand and meet each of the Technical Standards.
Recommendations—You must present three letters of recommendation.
Submission of three reference letters is required on forms provided by the electronic application through CASPA. Please select three individuals who can best address your personal qualities. Ideal references would include the following:
Work experience—You must have at least 480 hours of direct patient health care experience by the time you enter the program, 240 of which must be completed and reported at time of application. If the 480 hours are not completed at the time of application, a clear plan that confirms how the hours will be completed by the start of PA classes is required.
Direct patient care experience (480 hours) is required for application. Applicants will be evaluated on the quality of patient care hours. Direct, hands-on care of patients in a clinical setting is preferred. The admission committee uses the following criteria to classify the level of patient care experience.
Criteria: 
Examples of Common Experiences Include*:
EMT, CNA, Medical Scribe, Patient Care Tech, Lab Tech, Physical Therapy Tech, Pharmacy Tech. 
*This list is not exhaustive and applicants will be able to document their direct patient care experience in their application. 
Shadowing—You must have spent time shadowing a PA.
Applicants are required to shadow a PA. Although a specific amount of PA shadowing hours isn't required, shadowing PAs in several specialties should give the applicant a good understanding of the diverse role of the PA. Virtual shadowing hours are accepted from May 2020 through August 2021. In-person shadowing is required outside of this window.
Interview—After you submit complete application materials, you may be selected for a personal interview with members of the PA Program Admissions Committee.
Students selected for admission to the Union College PA Program will have demonstrated high scholastic ability, emotional and intellectual maturity, superior communication skills, an orientation to service, and the potential for achieving career satisfaction within the PA role. The on-campus personal interview will assess these factors and is a vital part of the selection process. 
Letter from Previous Program Director—If applying from a previous PA or medical school where a diploma was not granted, applicant must supply a letter of recommendation from the previous program director.
The following additional requirements must be met by all international applicants:
All college/university transcripts must be submitted. Non-U.S. college or university transcripts must be evaluated by a recognized transcript evaluation service, such as WES (World Education Service). This determines the United States' equivalent to the studies and is a crucial part of the application process.
An applicant whose native language is not English must meet one of the requirements below to demonstrate satisfactory skills in English understanding and use.
For individuals possessing medical degrees, requests for advanced standing or waiving PA program courses are not granted (e.g., If an applicant has already taken an anatomy course, he is still required to take the full anatomy course in our curriculum). It is important that all students learn the curriculum as taught from the perspective of PAs.
International students must complete at least three upper division science courses from four-year colleges or universities in the U.S. (rather than a community college), achieving letter grades of A prior to application. These courses traditionally are numbered in the 300s or 400s.
The Union College PA Program requires 480 hours of direct patient care experience, obtained through work or volunteering rather than as a student in training. International applicants must have gotten these hours in direct patient care in an American medical care system in the U.S.
Once a student has been academically accepted into the PA program, all immigration procedures must be handled through the Union College Admissions Office.
Complete these undergraduate classes before beginning your master's. 
These are the prerequisite courses you'll need to complete before you begin the PA Program. There is no time period expiration on prerequisite courses. The transfer equivalency tool may help you find if the courses you took qualify.
Courses
Semester hours
General Biology I *
4
General Biology II * °
4
Microbiology *
4
Human Anatomy * ^
4
Human Physiology * ^
4
General Chemistry I *
4
Organic Chemistry I *
4
Biochemistry (lab preferred) +
3-4
Medical Terminology
1
Elementary Statistics & Probability
3
Developmental (Lifespan) Psychology
3
* Lab required
°Another biology course may (at the discretion of the PA Program) be substituted to fulfill this prerequisite requirement. Examples of substitution include, but are not limited to: Developmental Biology, Immunology, Genetics, Molecular Biology, Endocrinology, or Cell Biology. Please direct questions to Jan Lemon, Admission Coordinator  (jan.lemon@ucollege.edu).
^ Upper division series is preferred
+ Must be upper division (Note: Upper division courses are 300-400 courses (or 3000-4000) geared toward college juniors and seniors. These courses are not offered at community colleges.
All applications are reviewed without regard to age, sex, race, color, ethnicity, creed or national origin. Admission preference is given to Union College students or graduates and to graduates of other accredited North American Division Seventh-day Adventist colleges and universities (read more about our admission preferences below). 
The PA Program Admissions Committee admits applicants from other colleges and universities who have demonstrated a commitment to Christian principles and are best suited to meet the educational goals of the Union College PA Program. The committee will recommend candidates who meet the admission requirements, technical standards, and course prerequisites listed herein, and present the best overall profile evidenced in these areas: 
Admission preference is given to Union College students or graduates and to graduates of other accredited North American Division Seventh-day Adventist colleges and universities. This preference is a linear formula based upon the number of semester hours the applicant has completed at Union College or another accredited Seventh-day Adventist college or university in the United States and takes into account the overall applicants score (post-interview) to apply preference points for final ranking of interviewed applicants.
The Union College PA Program also has interview preference for undergraduate Union College and Bryan College of Health Science students who meet the following criteria: Maintenance of 3.5 science and 3.5 cumulative GPAs; completion of all application requirements, and a successful interview (although obtaining an interview does not guarantee admission). 
Applicants applying as Biomedical Science, Advanced Pre-PA Emphasis students will be considered by the Admissions Committee based on criteria established for this degree. These criteria allow exceptional applicants from Union College to apply to the PA Program prior to their junior year of undergraduate studies. If accepted, these students would begin the PA Program studies after the successful completion of their junior year and would earn the Biomedical Science Advanced Pre-PA Emphasis degree at the successful completion of their first full year in the PA Program. The Admissions Committee will determine their acceptance prior to the end of the applicants’ junior fall semester. Biomedical Science Advanced Pre-PA Emphasis students who are not accepted into the PA program may not reapply for this degree and will be advised to pursue a different degree option. As these students work to complete four-year degrees, they may again apply and may be accepted into the program after graduation. These students, however, have no additional preference than what is outlined above. 
Preference is also granted to all applicants with direct, hands-on patient care experience in a clinical setting; please see the above section "work experience requirements" for more information.
1. Applicants received from CASPA are reviewed.
2. Those not meeting application requirements are notified via email.
3. Those meeting application requirements are considered for interviews through approval of the Admissions Committee, through a rolling admissions process of first-come, first-served (see below for more information).
4. Approximately 100 candidates will be invited for interviews (to fill 30 available seats).
5. Candidates interview from May to September. 
6. Applicants are notified by email of their status. 
Understanding the Rolling Admissions Process
The Union College PA Program uses a rolling admissions approach.  In this approach, interviews are conducted and admission decisions are made while applications are still being accepted. Our process is specifically designed so that open seats remain after the application deadline and conclusion of interviews in September.
While applications are reviewed in the order that they are received, all applicants who meet our minimum requirements will remain under consideration for the duration of the interview period and may be invited for an interview at any time during that period. 
In this rolling approach, the timeline between application submission and interview invitation can vary significantly for a given applicant. Thus, one applicant could submit their application in May and receive an invitation to interview in June, while another applicant could submit their application in May and receive and invitation to interview in September.
If not selected for an interview, applicants are notified at the conclusion of the interview season, typically by October.
Seat Deposit—To accept an offered seat, a $650 non-refundable deposit, along with written notice of acceptance, must be received within 10 days of acceptance. 
Health requirements—You must complete a physical examination and have all required immunizations.
Students admitted to the program will be required to obtain and submit documentation of a comprehensive physical examination completed within 12 months prior to matriculation. Forms will be supplied to students at the time of their acceptance into the PA Program.
Students at the Union College PA Program must submit the completed immunization form to Exxat to document required vaccinations and/or immunity as described below, as defined by the CDC's recommendations for health care personnel and state-specific mandates. Students will be placed on hold and may not register for courses until they have met the immunization requirements. Students are responsible for late registration fees encountered due to late submission of immunization documentation.
Individuals covered by this requirement include those in any of the following categories:
1) Students accepted into the Union College PA Program
2) Faculty of the Union College PA Program
1) PA Program staff and the Program Director are responsible for sending all immunization information and requirements to invited students after they have accepted admission to the program.
2) Students are responsible for entering required information to Exxat as soon as possible, but no later than May 1 prior to matriculation. Forms received after this deadline may not be processed in time to allow registration without a late registration fee.
3) Incomplete forms will not be accepted. The student is responsible for entering demographic data and dates for vaccinations and/or titers. Incomplete forms will be returned for completion.
4) Any additional fees incurred related to immunization and or screening for immunity that may apply will be the responsibility of the student.
 
Deadlines for documentation of immunization requirements are no later than May 1 prior to matriculation. Students who are placed on the alternate list are strongly encouraged to begin the immunization process and/or gather immunization documentation as soon as they are placed upon the list. Failure to do so may result in a delay or denial of acceptance.
1) Rubella (German Measles), Rubeola (Measles), Mumps
a. All students must have evidence of a positive antibody titer (lab report required). 
b. If your vaccination series is in process, report where you are in the series to the Clinical Coordinator. 
c. You must complete the series and have a positive titer in all three prior to entry into the PA Program. 
2) Varicella (Chicken Pox)
a. All students must have evidence of a positive antibody titer (lab report required). 
b. If your vaccination series is in process, report where you are in the series to the Clinical Coordinator. 
c. You must complete the series and have a positive titer prior to entry into the PA Program. 
3) Tetanus/Diphtheria/Pertussis
a. All students must have evidence of documentation of a TDaP booster administered within the past 10 years. 
b. If your TDaP expires during your didactic or clinical phase, you must document another booster.
4) Tuberculosis (TB)
All students are required to submit evidence of one of the following:
a. A negative 1-step Tuberculin Skin Test (TST) administered within the past 12 months; OR
b. A negative IGRA lab report (either T-SPOT or quantiFERON Gold). 
c. If the TST is positive, you must submit a negative IGRA lab report. 
d. If IGRA lab report is positive, you must submit a negative chest x-ray (lab report required) and a negative TB Questionnaire.
e. If the chest x-ray is positive, you must submit a statement from your physician on office letterhead regarding your treatment plan. 
5) Hepatitis B
a. All students must have evidence of a positive antibody titer (lab report required). 
b. If your vaccination series is in process, report where you are in the series to the Clinical Coordinator. 
c. You must complete the series and have a positive titer prior to entry into the PA Program. 
6) Polio
a. All students must have evidence of a 4 series vaccination. 
b. If vaccinated as a child, one of the vaccinations must be an injected vaccine. 
c. If vaccinated as an adult, a series of 3 injected vaccinations are required. 
7) Flu Vaccine
a. Students are encouraged to receive annual flu vaccinations.
b. Many clinical sites require the flu vaccination between October 1 and March 30 of your clinical year.
c. Individuals who do not wish to receive the influenza vaccination must sign a form to that effect and must also follow the clinical site's policy for employees who do not wish to receive the vaccination. 
8) COVID Vaccine
a. Students are required to obtain and show proof of the COVID-19 vaccination series. Students who do not wish to receive the COVID-19 vaccination must complete a medical or religious exemption* form from Union College, as well as for each additional clinical site, as required by individual site policy. 
*An exemption may impact the student's ability to attend a clinical site or complete clinical courses, which may impact graduation. 
For students traveling and/or participating in clinical rotations outside of the United States additional immunizations my be required. The immunization status must meet CDC guidelines.
Background check—You must receive clearance through a criminal background check.
Criminal background checks are performed after the applicant is conditionally accepted and has paid the required deposit. Felony convictions or multiple misdemeanor convictions may result in denial of acceptance to the program and/or eligibility of licensure.
Health insurance—proof of current, valid personal health insurance is required while enrolled as a PA student. Personal liability insurance is encouraged.
American Heart Association HeartCode BLS—CPR certification must be obtained by May1 of the same calendar year the student begins the PA Program and must be kept active while a PA student.
2019
2020
2021
Men
8 (26.67%)
6 (20%)
1 (3.33%)
Women
22 (73.33%)
24 (80%)
29 (96.66%)
Non-White, non-Caucasian
4 (13.33%)
2 (6.67%)
1 (3.33%)
Average age
22.9
22
22.73
From Nebraska
18 (60%)
19 (63.33%)
18 (60%)
BS of Health Sciences candidate
0
1 (3.33%)
1 (3.33%)
Attended Union College
4 (13.33%)
1 (3.33%)
1 (3.33%)
Attended other Adventist college
1 (3.33%)
0
0
Average overall GPA
3.64
3.75
3.74
Average science GPA
3.56
3.64
3.66
Within the Union College PA Program, “advanced placement” refers to allowing students to transfer graduate credits from another accredited PA institution rather than complet­ing those hours in the Union College PA Program. While possible for didactic course­work, advanced placement does not apply to the clinical component (clinical rotation experiences in the third year).
Transfer of PA professional courses—those specific to the PA profession, not to include general study requirements that are part of a bachelor’s degree in PA studies—is limited to students transferring from another accredited PA Program. The student must have a recommendation from the previous program and may be required to validate proficiency in courses being transferred either by a challenge examination or by demonstration of the necessary skills. Individuals requesting advanced placement must meet the regular application and selection criteria.
Due to the rigorous academic course work in the PA Program, international medical graduates may not receive advanced placement beyond the scope of this policy. (See the PA Student Handbook Section 9.10.2 ADVANCED PLACEMENT.)
Learn everything you need to do to be accepted into Union's PA program.
Union is accredited by ARC-PA and the Higher Learning Commission.
Learn about our program—outcomes, vision and even frequently asked questions.
How much will it cost to get a Master of Physician Assistant Studies at Union? Here's everything you need to know.
Check out the classes you'll need to graduate with a Master of Physician Assistant Studies.
Why earn a Master of Physician Assistant Studies at Union College?
Union College, becoming Union Adventist University in May 2024, is an accredited, Seventh-day Adventist institution of higher learning in Lincoln, Nebraska since 1891.
Register for classes, see grades, make a payment and more.
Connect and communicate with campus.
Participate in classes online.
