Union College official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://www.union.edu/ai
Samuel Crowley '23 created this AI-generated animation in the course "Real and Recorded Time," taught by Professor Fernando Orellana.
Welcome the new world. One where the breathtaking vistas of the digital realm are opening as never before to reveal both awe-inspiring potential and lurking perils.
Consider:
The artistry of a machine-crafted painting in the style of Van Gogh or music reminiscent of Beethoven.
AI-powered computer simulations that can turbocharge the pace of scientific discovery.
New research tools that catalyze a student’s love of learning.
But with this vast promise comes considerable peril.
The same technology that can produce compelling prose also can spread damaging misinformation through the creation of chillingly real deep fake videos.
In the wrong hands AI can be used to breach digital fortresses, posing unprecedented cybersecurity risks.
And, sometimes AI just gets it wrong – spinning out digital hallucinations that present fabrications as fact.
At Union we are committed to preparing students to thrive in this new world by introducing them to the paradigm-shifting potential of AI through multidisciplinary perspectives - and by helping them understand the responsibilities that come with harnessing this powerful technology.
Union in the age of generative AI: A message from the President
At Union, our vision is to prepare students to “lead with wisdom, empathy and courage, in ways large and small, today and across  multiple tomorrows.”
 
 
 
Union faculty are using various AI tools and technologies across and within disciplines including anthropolgy, computer science, economics, engineering, English, philosophy and visual arts:
Associate Professor of Computer Science
"My vision is to build computer systems that can have fluent conversations with humans using English, or another human language, as well as gestures and other non-verbal behaviors."
Mary H. '80 and Richard K. Templeton '80 Assistant Professor
"In addition to building AI-based systems that can solve problems and automate tasks, there is a need to work towards making these large models energy-efficient and deployable in small devices. This will unlock several novel applications, increase user privacy, and lower the impact of large AI models on the planet."
IN THE CLASSROOM
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Union offers classes teaching AI or using AI tools and technologies. Some examples include: 
White text reading 'Union College'
(518) 388-6000
Admissions: (518) 388-6112
 
 
 
807 Union Street Schenectady, NY 12308 © 2024 Trustees of Union College · Student consumer information · Website privacy policy 
