University of Massachusetts at Dartmouth official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://www.umassd.edu/programs/artificial-intelligence/
The Department of Computer & Information Science offers a BS degree in computer science with a concentration in artificial intelligence (AI): the study of computer applications and information science applicable to fields that require intelligent software systems. 
Employment of computer and information technology occupations is projected to grow 12% from 2018 to 2028, much faster than the average for all occupations. Demand for AI-related jobs is even greater.
The AI concentration:
As a graduate, you will be able to:
The AI minor allows non-computer science majors to pursue AI knowledge and effectively provide technical diversity in fields that are shaping the world economically, socially, and culturally. You will be trained AI, data mining, bioinformatics, mobile robotics, image processing, and data visualization.
You will be prepared for a wide range of careers, including biomedical devices, research in protein folding to develop new pharmaceuticals, automation, and manufacturing. Completion of this minor requires 18-20 credit hours (6 courses). Learn more about the artificial intelligence minor.
Honors College student and Robotics Club president Cameron McAlpine '23 led his capstone team in the development of an algorithm for autonomous jet skis. During his time at UMassD, Cameron became a highly engaged leader in the campus community and a source of support for his fellow students. 
Take advanced courses, pursue research, and be part of a community of scholars.
Earn academic credits and gain a global perspective on your field.
Faculty work with students on cutting-edge research projects.
Gain the benefit of a broad university education to enhance your knowledge and skills.
International (F-1) students who receive science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) degrees may be eligible to apply for a 24-month extension of their post-completion optional practical training (OPT). To learn about the eligibility criteria and detailed steps to apply, please review the International Student & Scholar Center (ISSC) OPT page and USCIS resources. F-1 students must consult with the ISSC to apply for STEM OPT.
Learn more about UMassD's academics, admissions, and events. We'll be in touch soon.
Haiping  Xu, PhD
Professor / Chairperson
								Computer & Information Science
                              	Dion 302G
                              	

508-910-6427
eur=rj^ppa+bar

myUMassD is our web portal, a central location for email, notifications, services, and COIN: Corsairs Online Information.
Log in

© 2024 Board of Trustees of the University of Massachusetts
