University of Alaska - Anchorage official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://www.uaa.alaska.edu/academics/college-of-arts-and-sciences/programs/model-united-nations-of-alaska/conference/committees.cshtml
UAA is the premier university in the heart of Alaska's largest city with campuses throughout Southcentral Alaska. Where culture, innovation and adventure converge, the unique locations provide unparalleled access to industry connections, Arctic research, outdoor recreation and more, facilitating once-in-a-lifetime experiences, groundbreaking education and impactful careers.
UAA offers more than 100 degree and certificate programs that consistently prepare students for success after graduation. State-of-the-art classroom instruction and hands-on learning collide in UAA's innovative academic programs, which feature unique courses that train students to lead Alaska into the future.
Learn more about admissions processes, taking classes, tour UAA in-person or virtually, and find out more about financial aid. The Office of Financial Aid is available to offer support and advice so you can make informed decisions regarding college funding options. The Enrollment Services Center offers virtual and walk-in appointments to help students apply; get help with financial aid, scholarships, and more.
From 13 competitive NCAA teams to recreation and intramural and club sports, students have the opportunity to excel in athletics at every level. The Alaska Airlines Center and Seawolf Sports Complex offer recreation as well as hosting community events and concerts. Students can take advantage of cheering for SeawolfNation with free tickets to many games.
UAA is a hub for cutting-edge theoretical and applied research in health, engineering, and the physical and social sciences. In nearly every discipline, undergraduate and graduate students have the opportunity to join research teams and collaborate with experienced faculty mentors.
Explore the wide variety of services and resources available at UAA to help promote your academic and personal success and well-being. From academic advising to student clubs and residence life, we're here to help you have an amazing university experience.
Located in the ancestral homelands of the Dena'ina, Ahtna Dene, Alutiiq/Sugpiak, Chugachmiut and Eyak peoples, Alaska Native curriculum at UAA provides an in-depth perspective on contemporary Alaska Native societies, languages, cultures, history, politics, art, governments and corporations.
*Note: Resolutions should not exceed one page in length with a maximum of 5 operative
                              clauses
The United Nations Security Council (UNSC) is headed by Taylor Heckart.
The UNSC holds the primary responsibility of maintaining international peace and security
                                       by addressing any threat to the peace, breach of the peace, or act of aggression.
                                       It executes these duties through enacting peacekeeping operations, imposing sanctions,
                                       and implementing international regulations on armaments and the use of force. Security
                                       Council resolutions often deal with breaches of international peace or severe human
                                       rights abuses, as well as matters relating broadly to transregional stability and
                                       accountability. As the only UN body with the ability to violate national sovereignty
                                       through peacekeeping and sanctions, it has unique powers of enforcement in this regard.
The UNSC also has a unique membership structure, which includes only 15 nations: 5
                                       permanent members with the right to veto any Security Council resolution, and 10 rotating
                                       members selected broadly from the members of the General Assembly on two-year shifts.
                                       The Permanent Members (P-5 Nations) are the People’s Republic of China, France, the
                                       Russian Federation, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and
                                       the United States of America. This year, Albania, Brazil,  Ecuador, Gabon, Ghana,
                                       Japan, Malta, Mozambique, Switzerland, and the United Arab Emirates hold temporary
                                       seats.
References
The International Criminal Court (ICC) is headed by Emma Mullet (as Chief Justice) and Casi LaBlanc.
The International Criminal Court (ICC) is an intergovernmental organization and international
                                       tribunal that sits in The Hague, Netherlands. The ICC investigates and, where warranted,
                                       tries individuals charged with the gravest crimes of concern to the international
                                       community: genocide, war crimes, crimes against humanity and the crime of aggression.
                                       In our ICC committee at our UAA Model United Nations conference, delegates will be
                                       paired into partnerships and represent either the prosecution or defendant of their
                                       country in an international court case provided to them. Delegates will write legal
                                       briefs on their cases and present them during the case proceedings. Additionally,
                                       delegates will be expected to answer questions pertaining to their arguments during
                                       their speaking time from 3 justices, who will decide the final verdict of each case.
In the ICC, we are looking for students who have an interest in international law,
                                       debate, or are simply looking for a more challenging style of committee to be involved
                                       in. The ICC is one of the few committees in which delegates will have access to their
                                       laptops and mobile devices to help in further research during the conference. If you
                                       are interested in the ICC, attached below are some helpful links to better inform
                                       you on the court and the way it runs. The first link is to the Rome Statue - the treaty
                                       used by the ICC in which they define each aspect of the crimes under which the court
                                       has jurisdiction. Especially helpful if you’re looking to be a part of this committee
                                       is the third link which is our digital ePortfolio that is specific to our UAA MUN
                                       ICC.
References
What does the International Criminal Court do?  
The United Nations Permenant Forum on Indigenous Peoples is headed by Griffin Lindsay.
Indigenous peoples are inheritors and practitioners of unique cultures and ways of
                                       relating to people and the environment. They have retained social, cultural, economic
                                       and political characteristics that are distinct from those of the dominant societies
                                       in which they live. Despite their cultural differences, Indigenous peoples from around
                                       the world share common problems related to the protection of their rights as distinct
                                       peoples.
Indigenous peoples have sought recognition of their identities, way of life, and their
                                       rights to traditional lands, territories and natural resources for years, yet throughout
                                       history, their rights have always been violated. Indigenous peoples today are arguably
                                       among the most disadvantaged and vulnerable groups of people in the world. The international
                                       community now recognizes that special measures are required to protect their rights
                                       and maintain their distinct cultures and ways of life, and the United Nations Permanent
                                       Forum on Indigenous Issues provides a venue for conversations about the needs of Indigenous
                                       people to take place within.
Nation-states/indigenous peoples: 
References
Delegates to the Model UNPFII are encouraged to explore the current and historic relationships
                                       between their specific Indigenous groups and corresponding member nations, and how
                                       they relate to the conference topic, in order to give context to the work of the committee.
The Arctic Council is headed by Denali Partridge.
Formally established in 1996, the Arctic Council is an intergovernmental forum that
                                       aims to address issues faced by Arctic communities and the Indigenous peoples living
                                       in the Arctic.  The Arctic Council focuses on issues related to the sustainable development
                                       and environmental protection in the Arctic, Arctic shipping, and climate change related
                                       matters.  An international forum used to discuss areas of collaboration, the Arctic
                                       Council is composed of eight Arctic States, six permanent Indigenous participants,
                                       six working groups, and various observers.  At UAA, the Model Arctic Council will
                                       be governed by two co-chairs, with representatives from Arctic States and Indigenous
                                       permanent participants participating in a working group to reach consensus on issues
                                       that affect the Arctic.. 
One of the subcommittees of the Arctic Council is the working group for the Protection
                                       of the Arctic Marine Environment. PAME addresses policy measures that are responsive
                                       to environmental changes and land and sea-based activities. The work of PAME focuses
                                       largely on the thematic areas of Arctic Shipping, Marine Protected Areas, Exploration
                                       and Development, Ecosystem Management, and Arctic Marine Pollution. To address these
                                       areas, PAME focuses on achieving consensus development of strategic plans, guidelines,
                                       and assessments that work well within existing legal frameworks aimed at preservation
                                       of the Arctic marine environment. The chairmanship of PAME rotates every three years
                                       between Arctic Council member states, and is currently chaired by the representative
                                       from Norway. 
 
Additional Links:
https://arctic-council.org/resources/arctic-acronyms/ 
https://arctic-council.org/explore/topics/pollutants/ 
The International Telecommunication Union - Accessibility, Affordability and Development
                                       is headed by Ella Bryner and Jamie Conlan.
The International Telecommunication Union Development Sector (ITU-D) is a branch of
                                       the ITU that is focused on the accessibility, affordability, and development of technology.
                                       In a rapidly growing technological world, the ITU-D works to close the digital divide worldwide, to not leave anyone behind, and to drive
                                       digital transformation. ITU-D’s focus on the power of information and communications
                                       technology for economic prosperity, job creation, digital skills development, gender
                                       equality, diversity, a sustainable and circular economy, ​and for saving lives. ITU-D’s
                                       work prioritizes those most in need- from people living in the world’s Least Developed
                                       Countries to marginalized communities everywhere- in order to provide accessibility,
                                       affordability, and development for all. 
The International Telecommunication Union - Cybersecurity and AI is headed by Mckayla Montgomery and Mark Zimmerman.
The International Telecommunications Union A.I. and Radiocommunication Sector (ITU-R)
                                       drafts and executes policy for emerging technologies in machine learning, digital
                                       security, and information safety. By proactively and responsibly working with member
                                       states and international stakeholders, ITU-R paves the way for the safe and responsible
                                       use of Artificial Intelligence (A.I.) and reducing the impact of cyberwarfare and
                                       digital terrorism. ITU-R is focused on promoting international cooperation in Generative
                                       A.I. trust and safety policy, setting standards for cybersecurity and counter-cyberterrorism,
                                       securing the safety of users on communication and social networking platforms, and
                                       combatting dangerous misinformation and disinformation online.
The International Telecommunications Union was originally founded in 1865 to ensure
                                       standardised telegraphy across land and sea, predating most standardisation committees.
                                       Since then, ITU has created standards for telecommunications that people around the
                                       world continue to interact with. Landmark standards from this committee include fibre-optic
                                       internet connections, digital video encoding standards, Internet-of-Things (IoT) connectivity,
                                       LTE and 5G mobile networks. During this conference, ITU hopes to create the same agreement
                                       on standards around emerging A.I. models and combat threats posed by information or
                                       cyber warfare. 
 
Learn more about ITU-R:
The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees is headed by Andrea Guevara and Quinn Sweeney.
Originally established as the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration
                                       (UNRRA) in 1950, the committee was formed for a three-year period to assist displaced
                                       Europeans after the Second World War. Ever-present international conflict, however,
                                       extended the need for the committee. Since then, the UNHCR has been working to provide
                                       humanitarian aid to the world’s most vulnerable with the primary goal to aid those
                                       seeking asylum from generalized violence, armed conflict, and/or human rights violations. 
The foundation of the UNHCR is the 1951 Convention and its only amendment, the 1967
                                       Protocol, that define the word “refugee” and outline the key responsibilities of the
                                       UNHCR and the international community. In line with the 1951 convention, the UNHCR
                                       has three key priorities; 1) respond to emergencies, 2) protect human rights, and
                                       3) build better futures. In 2021, there were approximately 21.3 million refugees covered
                                       under the UNHCR’s mandate, more than double the 10.5 million figure merely a decade
                                       prior. The UNHCR works on the ground alongside humanitarian organizations to provide
                                       emergency assistance such as food, water, healthcare, shelter, etc. Most of this work
                                       takes place in countries in Africa and Asia, the largest hosts and producers of refugees
                                       and internally displaced peoples.
 
UNHCR Website: https://www.unhcr.org/  
UN Overview of Refugee Issues: https://www.un.org/en/global-issues/refugees 
Legal basis of UNHCR: 
Global Compact on Refugees: https://www.unhcr.org/about-unhcr/who-we-are/global-compact-refugees  
Statistics: 
Ongoing Emergencies: https://www.unhcr.org/emergencies 
UNHCR Strategic Direction: https://reporting.unhcr.org/strategic-directions-2022-2026#_ga=2.80725139.506072006.1686198378-208874710.1686198378 
UNHCR Innovation Service: https://www.unhcr.org/innovation/ 

                                    UAA is a comprehensive, open access, public university established on the ancestral
                                    homelands of the Dena’ina, Ahtna, Alutiiq/Sugpiaq, and Eyak/dAXunhyuu Peoples.
                                    									
                                 
UA is an affirmative action/equal opportunity employer, educational institution and provider and prohibits illegal discrimination against any individual. Learn more about UA's notice of nondiscrimination. UAA strives to make its online experiences accessible. Learn more about our Accessibility policy and how to provide feedback.
© 2024 University of Alaska Anchorage
