University of Mary Hardin-Baylor official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://www.umhb.edu/academics/celt/home
 
            Center for Excellence  in Learning and Teaching
          
The Center for Excellence in Learning & Teaching (CELT) exists to assist faculty who teach at the University of Mary Hardin-Baylor to excel in teaching, to enhance their Christian calling to the academic world, and to support student learning.
The CELT seeks to advance teaching at UMHB by promoting a university culture that puts the educational experiences of students first, by valuing a scholarly approach to teaching and learning, and by focusing on faculty success with teaching. The CELT provides a variety of activities to enrich the academic experiences of faculty, which include:
 
UMHB is a member of the Professional and Organizational Development (POD) Network which sponsors workshops and conferences related to faculty development.
The facility offers the following resources: workshops, faculty lounge, conference room, professional library with books on teaching and learning, and a resource room.
The Center for Excellence in Learning & Teaching (CELT) is pleased to announce a listing of Fall 2023 sessions. Registration is now open! Lunch will be provided for those who pre-register by 5:00 PM BEFORE the day of the event. ALL sessions will be held in the Townsend Memorial Library Classroom (Room #135). 
Please Register below for Spring sessions
Date Tuesday, March 19, 2024 (12:30-1:30 PM)
Speaker Dr. Lynn Eaton, Director of Faculty Development
More than 140 higher education organizations, administrators, researchers and faculty
members from 47 countries have collaborated to produce a set of core principles to
guide development of artificial intelligence policies and practices at colleges and
universities. Come hear all about their findings and join the discussion about what they
might mean for UMHB.
Date Thursday, March 21, 2024 (12:30-1:30 PM)
Speaker Ms. Jennifer Batson, Cataloging Librarian
Ms. Caitlin Miller, Reference Librarian
Ms. Maria Smith, Electronic Resources Librarian
Even as we recognize the promise of applying AI technology to the craft of scholarly
knowledge production, we also recognize the potential perils of doing so. The integrity
of the scholarly research process depends upon methodological transparency and
reliability. Join us as campus librarians share how faculty can be better prepared for the
future of scholarship.
Date Monday, March 25, 2024 (12-12:50 PM)
Speaker Dr. Jeanene Lewis
Professor, College of Humanities and Sciences (English Department)
The use of AI is especially prevalent in writing assignments. Come hear how different
tools can help students get organized and, on the way to creating authentic writing
products within their coursework.
Date  Monday, April 1, 2024 (12-12:50 PM)
SpeakerMr. Bin Zhang, Sr. Instructional Designer, Center for Digital Learning
Mr. Blake Dupre, Multimedia Specialist, Center for Digital Learning
This session will focus on utilizing AI to improve personalized learning journeys and
methods for verifying the accuracy of AI-generated content. Ways in which AI can assist
faculty by automating everyday tasks to boost efficiency, and to achieve a more
professional quality of lecture videos using an AI generated avatar will also be shared.
DateWednesday, April 3, 2024 (12-12:50 PM)
Speakers
Dr. Alan Asher
Associate Dean, Director of Learning Resources
There is no separating the centrality of copyright from the essence of higher education.
Nearly every course of instruction involves the use of written, visual, intangible, and
tangible materials, many, if not most, of which are subject to copyright protection.
Students, faculty, and staff-essentially all the people who comprise higher education-
produce and interact with copyrightable and copyrighted materials every day. Join us as
we learn the acceptable use of such materials in higher education.
Date Wednesday, April 10, 2024 (12-12:50 PM)
Speaker Dr. Lynn Eaton, Director of Faculty Development
College students are the lifeblood of higher education. Everyone in university
administration — including in the IT office — knows how valuable it is to truly
understand how those students feel, what they want, what they appreciate and what
they dislike about their college experience. Join us as we learn about the experiences of
college students’ use of AI in higher education (and beyond).
Date Monday, April 15, 2024 (12-12:50 PM)
Speaker Michaela Buck
Assistant Professor, Visual & Performing Arts (Art Department)
 AI-generated artwork has rapidly evolved. The distinction between art produced by
humans and AI is increasingly becoming blurred. Come see how AI techniques and
tools are developing new forms of expression and expanding the limits of are as we
know it today.
Date Tuesday, April 16, 2024 (12:30-1:30 PM)
Speaker Dr. Jason Martin
Clinical Director, Community Life Counseling,
Associate Professor, Counseling Program
The rapid implementation and expansion of AI in various areas of life has left many of
us feeling ambushed, unprepared, and even resentful of being upended. While AI
continues to present challenges in academia, it also provides an opportunity to rethink
how we teach and assess learning. This session aims to look at some of the
opportunities for change that may be needed, even overdue, and how AI can help.
Page last updated March 05, 2024
Our site uses Javascript.  Please enable it for the best experience.
