University of South Florida official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://www.usf.edu/provost/faculty-success/teaching-learning/guidance-generative-ai.aspx


University of South Florida
Office of the Provost and Executive Vice President


Search




Menu
Give Now
 Secondary Navigation
USF recognizes the increasing availability and impact of generative artificial intelligence
               (AI) tools on teaching and learning. Generative AI technologies like ChatGPT and Microsoft
               Copilot offer new opportunities to foster creativity and engage students in critical
               thinking, writing, and analysis, cultivating the development of modern skills needed
               in today’s workforce. As Generative AI technologies rapidly evolve, it is crucial
               for faculty to be equipped with the necessary tools and knowledge to integrate this
               powerful technology into their teaching practices.
This webpage offers information tailored to faculty. Resources will be updated as
               tools and guidelines continue to evolve.
Generative artificial intelligence (genAI) tools are rapidly transforming our teaching
               and learning, research, and business practices at USF. These tools will shift our
               approach to both regular tasks and how we address new challenges. With increasing
               availability of genAI tools, USF provides guidance and considerations for implementing use into various workflows.
CITL has developed a set of recommendations to guide you through developing a course
               policy that meets your learning goals. These can be augmented to work in your specific
               context. CITL Generative AI Course Policy Recommendations
See additional generative AI resources developed by CITL including workshops and opportunities to engage with faculty colleagues.
This subject guide includes information and suggested resources for beginning research on the topic
               of Generative Artificial Intelligence. Explore the background, key terms, issues,
               workshops, online tools, research guidelines, and recommended reading on Generative
               AI applications like ChatGPT and other popular generative toolsets.
If faculty and students use ChatGPT or other generative AI technology for writing,
               transparency is vital. The USF Libraries have developed essential resources for citation in writing, research and publications.
Exercise caution on Public generative AI tools such as Claude and ChatGPT. Treat posting
               information the same way you would a public or social media site. 
Menu
4202 E. Fowler Avenue,  CGS 401, Tampa, FL 33620, USA813-974-2154
Copyright © 2024, University of South Florida. All rights reserved.
This website is maintained by Office of the Provost and Executive Vice President.
