University of Washington official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://teaching.washington.edu/course-design/chatgpt/sample-ai-syllabus-statements/
This page provides some basic syllabus language you can use or adapt to articulate your expectations for whether and/or how students may use AI-based tools in your course. Stating your expectations in the syllabus is important because instructor expectations may differ from course to course.
Regardless of what your expectations regarding student use of AI-based tools are, consider including the following elements in your syllabus statement:
In this course, students are permitted to use AI-based tools (such as ChatGPT) on some assignments. The instructions for each assignment will include information about whether and how you may use AI-based tools to complete the assignment. All sources, including AI tools, must be properly cited. Use of AI in ways that are inconsistent with the parameters above will be considered academic misconduct and subject to investigation.
Please note that AI results can be biased and inaccurate. It is your responsibility to ensure that the information you use from AI is accurate. Additionally, pay attention to the privacy of your data. Many AI tools will incorporate and use any content you share, so be careful not to unintentionally share copyrighted materials, original work, or personal information.
Learning how to thoughtfully and strategically use AI-based tools may help you develop your skills, refine your work, and prepare you for your future career. If you have any questions about citation or about what constitutes academic integrity in this course or at the University of Washington, please feel free to contact me to discuss your concerns.
All work submitted for this course must be your own. Any use of generative AI tools, such as ChatGPT, when working on assignments is forbidden. Use of generative AI will be considered academic misconduct and subject to investigation
The assignments in this class have been designed to challenge you to develop creativity, critical-thinking, and problem-solving skills. Using AI technology will limit your capacity to develop these skills and to meet the learning goals of this course.
If you have any questions about what constitutes academic integrity in this course or at the University of Washington, please feel free to contact me to discuss your concerns.
Students in this course are encouraged to explore the use of AI-based tools (such as ChatGPT) when completing assignments. All sources, including AI tools, must be properly cited. Use of AI without proper citation will be considered academic misconduct and subject to investigation.
Please note that AI results can be biased and inaccurate. It is your responsibility to ensure that the information you use from AI is accurate. Additionally, pay attention to the privacy of your data. Many AI tools will incorporate and use any content you share, so be careful not to unintentionally share copyrighted materials, original work, or personal information.
Learning how to thoughtfully and strategically use AI-based tools may help you develop your skills, refine your work, and prepare you for your future career. If you have any questions about citation or about what constitutes academic integrity in this course or at the University of Washington, please feel free to contact me to discuss your concerns.
© 2024 University of Washington  |  Seattle, WA
