University of California, San Diego official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://ucsd.edu/research-innovation/artificial-intelligence.html
What we know about the impact of Artificial Intelligence on science and society today, will be transformed tomorrow. At UC San Diego, we thrive in the never-been-done-before, and so we dive in – charting a path into the unknown world of AI. From informing climate action and protecting our environment to developing lifesaving medical solutions and better healthcare models, UC San Diego is advancing how the world uses AI, creating tools that will improve our lives and create an equitable future for all.

Read the AI revolution story
Increased temperatures, weather extremes and hot and dry conditions have intensified the threat of wildfires. UC San Diego scientists work across disciplines combat wildfires with novel research and AI technology.
View  Wildfire Video
Many have hinted at AI's great potential to enhance practices across research and medicine, with applications spanning everything from radiology and surgery to disease modeling and drug discovery, and even patient safety and cybersecurity. But physicians and scientists are still working to translate that potential into real-world use, with UC San Diego faculty among those leading the charge. Read the story »



Can you tell if what you’re reading right now was written by a human or generated by AI? Do you care? Those are essentially the questions that UC San Diego researchers asked in an experiment with ChatGPT at a regional high school. Read the story »



CNN
The New York Times
The Scientist
Move over, ChatGPT: These AI-powered technologies and innovations being developed and implemented at UC San Diego could lead to the next developments in the “AI revolution.” From helping us manage chronic health conditions to deciding which movies to watch, advances in AI can help inform decision-making, accelerate scientific discovery—and even save lives. Read the story »




The Institute for Learning-enabled Optimization at Scale (TILOS) is part of a $220M NSF National AI Research Institutes investment to create multidisciplinary, multi-institution research institutes to serve as national hubs for universities, federal agencies, industry and nonprofit organizations to advance AI research and workforce development. 

Explore TILOS

The Institute for Practical Ethics (IPE) aims to close the gap between the rapid pace of innovation on subjects like AI and society’s ability to responsibly deal with the tough questions.


Explore the IPE

The increasing use of AI methods presents new technology challenges, and the Advanced Technology Lab (ATL) evaluates new hardware and software technologies for future computing and storage systems that are critical to conducting scientific research at  scale. 

Explore the ATL

Processing with Intelligent Storage and Memory (PRISM) focuses on novel memory and storage devices and circuits; next generation architectures; systems and software; and grand challenge applications that will demonstrate new capabilities of computing. 

Explore PRISM

From the doctor’s office to the classroom, rapidly advancing generative AI tools like OpenAI’s ChatGPT are already changing life at UC San Diego, leaving no discipline or specialty untouched. The introduction of multimodal GPT-4, trained on unprecedented amounts of data and capable of generating the most human-like text we’ve seen from a bot, prompted the term “AI apocalypse”—and raised real concerns about the future of work, academia, health care and beyond. Read the story »



UC San Diego’s world-class research facilities help make discovery possible.
 ©  Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved. | Accessibility | Privacy | Terms of Use
