University of Wisconsin - Whitewater official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://www.uww.edu/facsenate/current-policies/syllabi-language
All UWW syllabi should include the following information (which is limited to only what is pertinent to the classroom experience):
Approved at the All Faculty Meeting on 2023-10-17

Non-Discrimination Statement
The University of Wisconsin-Whitewater is dedicated to a safe, supportive, and non-discriminatory learning environment. It is the responsibility of all students to familiarize themselves with UWW policies regarding: Special Accommodations, Academic Misconduct, Religious Beliefs Accommodation, Absence for University Sponsored Events, the "Rights and Responsibilities" section of the Undergraduate Catalog or the “Academic Requirements and Policies” section of the Graduate Catalog, the "Student Academic Disciplinary Procedures” (UWS Chapter 14), and the "Student Non-academic Disciplinary Procedures" (UWS Chapter 17).
Approved by the Faculty Senate on 2020-11-10
Mandatory Reporting Statement
Federal law requires all university employees to report information obtained during the course of their duties regarding sexual misconduct, including domestic and dating violence, unless otherwise exempt by state law. For more information, including on how to report an incident, see http://www.uww.edu/sexual-misconduct-information​.
Approved by the Faculty Senate on 2019-12-10
  
   
Inclusive Classroom Statement 
Any student using approved accommodations in the classroom should notify the instructor as soon as possible. Students with the accommodation of recording for class notes must notify the instructor prior to the start of recording. A student who feels they many need an accommodation based on the impact of a disability should contact the Center for Students with Disabilities (CSD) at (262) 472-4711 or to learn more visit www.uww.edu.csd
  
Academic Misconduct Statememt
Academic misconduct is an act in which a student seeks to claim credit for the work or efforts of another without authorization or citation, uses unauthorized materials or fabricated data in any academic exercise, forges or falsifies academic documents or records, intentionally impedes or damages the academic work of others, engages in conduct aimed at making false representation of a student's academic performance, or assists other students in any of these acts.
Prohibited conduct includes cheating on an examination; collaborating with others in work to be presented, contrary to the stated rules of the course; submitting a paper or assignment as one's own work when a part or all of the paper or assignment is the work of another; submitting a paper or assignment that contains ideas or research of others without appropriately identifying the sources of those ideas; stealing examinations or course materials; submitting, if contrary to the rules of a course, work previously presented in another course; tampering with the laboratory experiment or computer program of another student; knowingly and intentionally assisting another student in any of the above, including assistance in an arrangement whereby any work, classroom performance, examination or other activity is submitted or performed by a person other than the student under whose name the work is submitted or performed. Student’s work must be in their own words except where appropriately cited. Excerpts from authors may be used judiciously, but direct quotes involving even a few words must include the source and cited appropriately. Failure to comply with these requirements constitutes plagiarism and is grounds for failure.
  
Academic Integrity Statement
The University believes that academic honesty and integrity are fundamental to the mission of higher education and of the University of Wisconsin–System. The University has a responsibility to promote academic honesty and integrity and to develop procedures to deal effectively with instances of academic dishonesty. Students are responsible for the honest completion and representation of their work, for the appropriate citation of sources, and for respect of others’ academic endeavors. Students who violate these standards are subject to disciplinary action. UWS Chapter 14 identifies procedures to be followed when a student is accused of academic misconduct. For additional information, please refer to the section in the Student Handbook entitled, Student Academic Disciplinary Procedures.
  
Mental Health Support Resources
The University of Wisconsin-Whitewater values your overall well- being and understands it is connected to your academic success. More specifically, the university is invested in supporting your mental health needs through various services and programs. We encourage you to utilize free, confidential counseling at University Health & Counseling Services (uww.edu/uhcs) or Winther Counseling Services (uww.edu/coeps/counselored/winther-counseling-services). For educational presentations or additional resources, contact wellness@uww.edu. For crisis support, additional resources include:
  
Statement on Reporting Information and Sexual Assault Resources 
Here at the University of Wisconsin- Whitewater we care about our students. All course instructors are required to report any instances of sexual violence or sexual harassment involving students of which they are made aware. For confidential support and services on campus please contact University Health and Counseling Services (UHCS) at 262-472-1305 or uww.edu/uhcs. For confidential support and services off campus, please contact New Beginnings APFV at 262-723-4653 or newbeginningswalworth.com.
Approved by Faculty Senate on 2019-03-12 & revised on 2019-12-10
Submitting Syllabi to Database
In accordance with the UW-Whitewater Faculty Senate (Resolution 945-12) and Academic Staff Assembly (ASAR 1516.8), instructors of every course are required to submit an updated syllabus every semester. Syllabi need to be uploaded as PDF files using the Online Syllabus Database or submitted directly to Andersen Library in paper form. More information is available here.
Approved by the Faculty Senate on 1995-03-14
Submitting Syllabi Online
Submitted syllabi for use online is to remain voluntary.
Approved by the Faculty Senate on 1995-09-14


Dr. Kimberly Nath
facsenate@uww.edu


 
262-472-1234 800 W. Main St. Whitewater, WI 53190
© 2024 UW Board of Regents

See all our accreditations »


We use cookies on this site. By continuing to browse without changing your browser settings to block or delete cookies you agree to the UW-Whitewater Privacy Notice.
