Washington and Lee University official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://my.wlu.edu/harte-center/resources-for-faculty-and-staff/resources-for-ai-and-higher-ed-instruction
A "hub" is a group of colleagues invited by the Harte Center director to focus on an idea that needs attention and expertise on behalf of Washington and Lee.
The following resources serve as a starting point for understanding the impact of AI on teaching. This collection is not meant to be exhaustive, but should provide a launchpad for further exploration. Should you need more tailored resources or have a question for the AI Hub, please contact Leslie Wingard Cunningham, Interim Director of the Harte Center.
For a general overview of AI — what it is, what it can and cannot do, and how it affects instruction — the following resources provide a good place to begin with plenty of rabbit holes to explore.
The following list is a more conversational, focused look at AI in the classroom. Many of these sources assume a basic familiarity with AI. A few provide opportunities for productive, collaborative discussion. These resources address topics such as fears around cheating through the use of AI, how to design writing assignments incorporating AI, and how AI might affect assessment choices.
These are general guidelines and example policy statements around AI in the classroom, which might be useful as you are designing your syllabus.
Understanding the relationship between technology and discrimination is a cornerstone to serving students in the 21st century. These resources specifically address issues of bias within the context of AI.
The following podcasts and newsletters provide further insight into AI, both within the context of higher education and more generally.
Contact UsJames Graham Leyburn Library, Level 1hartecenter@wlu.edu540-458-4829
Subscribe for the Harte Center E-Newsletter
In compliance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and all other applicable non-discrimination laws, Washington and Lee University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, national or ethnic origin, sex, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, age, disability, veteran's status, or genetic information in its educational programs and activities, admissions, and with regard to employment. Inquiries may be directed to the Title IX Coordinator, Elrod University Commons 212, (540) 458-4055, who is designated by the University to coordinate compliance efforts and carry out its responsibilities under Title IX, as well as those under Section 504 and other applicable non-discrimination laws. Inquiries may also be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education. See Non Discrimination Statement
