West Texas A&M University official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://www.wtamu.edu/student-life/handbook/academic-rules/01-categories-academic-dishonesty.html
1.1.A | Academic dishonesty includes the commission of any of the following acts. This listing is not exclusive of any other acts that may reasonably be called academic dishonesty. Claficiation is provided for each definition by listing some prohibited behaviors.
Intentionally using or attempting to use unauthorized materials, information, notes, study aids, or other devices or materials in any academic exercise. Unauthorized materials may include anything or anyone that gives a student assistance and has not been specifically approved in advance by the instructor. Examples include:
Making up data or results and recording or reporting them; submitting fabricated documents. Examples include:
Manipulating research materials, equipment, or processes, or changing or omitting data or results, such that the research is not accurately represented in the research record. Examples include:
Submitting substantia portions of the same work (including oral reports) for credit more than once without authorization from the instructor of the class for which the student submits the work. Examples include:
The appropriation of another person's ideas, processes, results, or working without giving appropriate credit. Examples include:
Generative artificial intelligence (Generative AI) is a computer-based technology that produces a variety of data, such as pictures, videos, music, or words, which may look or sound like a person made them. Generative AI tools appear to be created by humans because they are derived from deep machine learning routines and large langauge models based on algorithmic comprehension of materials created by humans. West Texas A&M University recognizes that generative AI presents challenges and simultaneously offers stimulating opportunities in higher education. West Texas A&M University offers faculty members the following choices of three distinct approaches to this complex challenge:
i. No Use of Generative AI Permitted: Because writing and critical thinking skills are part of the learning outcomes of this course, it is a violation of academic integrity to employ generative AI at any point in this course.
ii. Use of Generative AI Permitted Under Some Circumstances with Permission: There are specific situations within the course where you will use generative AI to explore how the technology can serve as a complimentary learning tool. The course faculty member will inform when, where, and how you may employe these tools, along with guidance for attribution. Any use of outside of faculty defined parameters constitutes a violation of academic integrity.
iii. Generative AI Permitted with Attribution: The use of generative AI is permitted in this course to help prepare assignments and projects. When submitting work, studnets must clearly identify any generative platform used, the date and prompts were issued, and related). Using an AI tool without proper attributiuon qualifies as a violation of academic integrity.
Intentionally or knowingly helping, or attempting to help, another to commit an act of academic dishonesty. Examples include:
