Western Kentucky University official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://www.wku.edu/news/articles/index.php?view=article&articleid=11437

Dear Colleagues,
As you begin to prepare to come back to campus and are working on your upcoming courses, you may be thinking about the recent advancements in language learning models and generative artificial intelligence (AI) tools. While we will each approach AI differently in our classrooms, I urge you to be thoughtful and purposeful in your communication with students about the role AI might play in your courses. If you have not already developed an AI policy for your syllabus, please consider adapting one of the suggested statements provided on the WKU Syllabus page that best matches your teaching philosophy and course goals.
To help support the work our campus is doing in response to generative AI, the CITL is forming a Generative AI Community of Practice (CoP). This group will be charged with developing further resources and best practices related to the use of AI in the classroom and I would urge you to consider joining. For more information about the CoP, including expectations and compensation, please see this announcement. If you have questions regarding the community, contact Micah Logan from the CITL.
If you have questions about AI in the classroom, the CITL has developed a resource page to help provide additional information, and you are welcome to email citl@wku.edu with any questions you have about AI in the classroom. One important concern related to AI is academic dishonesty and I assure you that this is of utmost importance to us. While groups are developing tools to detect AI work, please keep in mind that the technology is working to catch up and these are currently unreliable. We will continue to monitor tools that are coming out and will make recommendations and updates as potential solutions are tested for reliability.
  Back to News
Mar 29th, 2024
“I have wanted to be a reporter since I was in third grade,” said Schanie, a Broadcasting major with minors in Marketing and Political Science.
Mar 29th, 2024
Western Kentucky University announced that Jana Michalik, a doctoral candidate at the University of Kentucky, has been named as the inaugural WKU Innovation Campus Scholar.
Mar 29th, 2024
Western Kentucky University’s 54th Annual WKU Student Scholar Showcase will be held Saturday, April 6, at Downing Student Union.
Mar 29th, 2024
“I have wanted to be a reporter since I was in third grade,” said Schanie, a Broadcasting major with minors in Marketing and Political Science.
Mar 25th, 2024
Brittany Moster Bergonzi, PhD, shares her transformative journey from Kentucky to the United Kingdom, sparked by a fateful encounter with a brochure from Harlaxton College. Her story reflects the power of curiosity, resilience, and seizing opportunities.
Mar 18th, 2024
City donates historic Shake Rag artifacts to WKU Special Collections Library
View Archive
Some of the links on this page may require additional software to view.
