West Virginia University official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://tlcommons.wvu.edu/syllabus-policies-and-statements/artificial-intelligence-syllabus-statements
Forms of coding and/or problem-solving assistance that use generative artificial
  intelligence (AI) to enhance or refine a student’s own work are permitted in this
  course. However, the use of such tools must be documented and clearly cited in
  all submitted work. Students must talk with their instructor prior to using such
  tools and be prepared to explain/answer any questions about the work submitted.
In this course, content-generating AI may be used in assignments, but proper citations
  must be given. Students must clearly identify writing, text, or media generated
  by AI and show how AI tools were used in the process of creating a final product.
  Not acknowledging AI-generated work will be treated as academic dishonesty. Students
  should think critically about the appropriate use of AI to achieve learning goals.
Unless notified otherwise, content-generating AI is not to be used in this course.
  The instructor will clearly state when and how it is permissible for students to
  use these tools. When allowed, students must clearly identify writing, text, or
  media generated by AI and show how AI tools were used in the process of creating
  a final product. Any attempt to treat AI output as a student’s own work or failing
  to identify AI-generated work will be treated as academic dishonesty. Students
  should think critically about the appropriate use of AI to achieve learning goals.
Forms of writing assistance that utilize artificial intelligence (AI) to proofread
  a student’s own written work (such as spellcheck or Grammarly) are acceptable.
  However, tools that rely on generative AI (such as GPT-3, ChatGPT, and Bard) that
  actually “write” (or generate) text from a prompt are not to be used to generate
  drafts or written work for any assignment in this course. If students are unsure
  which AI tools are acceptable, they should consult the instructor prior to using
  them.


Faculty Senate has approved a general AI syllabus statement and can be found on the
    TLC Syllabus Policies and Statements webpage.

© 2024 West Virginia University. WVU is an EEO/Affirmative Action employer — Minority/Female/Disability/Veteran.
    Last updated on August 4, 2023.

