Xavier University official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://www.sxu.edu/news/articles/2023/sxu-political-science-psychology-student-presents-research.html
Saint Xavier University (SXU) student Daisy Diaz recently presented her project, "Artificial
                        Intelligence (AI) Potential Political Threat" at SXU's 2023 EXPLORE STEM Research
                        Fellowship Symposium.
Diaz, who's double-majoring in psychology and political science, was intrigued by
                        the potential impact of AI technologies (such as ChatGPT and deepfakes) on the forthcoming
                        2024 presidential election.
"My fascination with exploring the political threat of AI was ignited by the significant
                        advancements it has made in the political arena, particularly in recent times. My
                        capstone project centers on diving deeper into AI and its potential political threats.
                        My key areas of focus include analyzing the impact of AI algorithms in social media
                        on polarization and media echo chambers as well as their ramifications on governance
                        and democracy," said Diaz.
Diaz's project focused on the mechanisms ChatGPT (Chat Generative Pre-Trained Transformer)
                        uses for sources of information, and she found that there is very little awareness
                        of the dangers deepfakes can have. She conducted research on how ChatGPT may be biased
                        in its answers, how the bias can influence political elections, and the use of deepfakes
                        in the political sphere.
"To determine whether ChatGPT continues to have a political bias despite its numerous
                        updates, we tested the validity in some of David Rozado's January 2023 political ideology
                        tests administered to ChatGPT. We found very few discrepancies between the results
                        Rozado obtained and the ones we ran, suggesting ChatGPT continues to have political
                        bias," said Diaz.
Diaz found that working on the project helped her to improve her research and writing
                        skills, and she is grateful for her mentors. 
"My mentor, Dr. Jean Mehta, provided valuable support throughout the research process
                        and helped me develop my capabilities. She also encouraged me to delve into a topic
                        that I am particularly passionate about. I am also grateful for Colleen Hanrahan and
                        Marina Martinez, who provided me with invaluable support and were always available
                        to offer their assistance," said Diaz.  
Diaz was inspired to pursue studies in political science because of her deep-rooted
                        passion for politics, which was sparked by her older brother, Daniel, who serves as
                        a senior paralegal in a prominent law firm. Her fascination with psychology was ignited
                        by her other brother, Jose, whose kind and compassionate nature left a lasting impact
                        on her.
"Driven by my innate desire to create a positive impact on people's lives, I developed
                        an intense passion for psychology. As a first-generation student, my older brothers
                        served as my role models who instilled in me the belief that I could achieve anything
                        I set my mind to. Both of my majors help me to take a crucial step toward achieving
                        my goals, as they provide me with a deeper understanding of different groups of people
                        and the tools necessary to help them," said Diaz.
In her years at SXU, Diaz has been drawn to the warm and supportive environment fostered
                        by the students, faculty and staff and feels that SXU's unwavering commitment to student
                        success motivates her to excel academically and achieve her goals.
"My classes push me to be academically capable and tenacious and provide me with the
                        support to confidently ask for additional help if I am struggling," said Diaz.
Diaz is a member of the Honors Program and treasurer of the Psychology Club. In addition
                        to her symposium research, she also had the opportunity to intern at the Center for
                        Community Research at DePaul University over the summer. Previously, she presented
                        a poster titled "Student-Athlete Success Outcomes" with Dr. Bobak at the Midwestern
                        Psychological Association (MPA) conference in April.
In the spring, Diaz will present her honors capstone and a poster at the 2024 MPA
                        conference. She also plans to pursue internships that align with her majors, one of
                        which will be in a clinical setting. Her ultimate goal is to secure a doctorate in
                        clinical-community psychology and advance research efforts, with a particular focus
                        on diverse communities.
This research program was supported by a grant from the National Science Foundation
                           (No. 1832511). 
