Australian Catholic University
https://staff.acu.edu.au/our_university/news/2023/august/student-usage-of-ai-tools
16 August 2023
Unauthorised use of artificial intelligence (AI) in work submitted for assessment is academic misconduct; but there can be confusion about the appropriateness of support tools.
Under ACU’s Student Academic Integrity and Misconduct Policy, unauthorised use of AI in work submitted for assessment is a form of academic misconduct. Any work submitted for assessment must be the student’s own (except for designated group work). 
Students should not use generative artificial intelligence tools (e.g. ChatGPT) or paraphrasing and translation tools (e.g. Quillbot) unless it is specifically authorised in the assessment requirements.  
Can students use grammar detection tools? 
Using programs that check spelling and grammar as you go (e.g. Grammarly) are not considered to be generative AI or paraphrasing tools, therefore they can be used. However, GrammarlyGo is a generative AI tool embedded into Grammarly and should not be used to help write assessments. Students should turn this feature off in their customisation settings by using the following instructions.
What about Turnitin and AI writing detection?
Earlier this year, Turnitin released a new tool that assists in detecting text generated by AI, that is not visible to students. When staff open a submission in Turnitin, it will appear as a ‘% AI’ figure which represents the percentage of qualifying text that Turnitin has determined to be AI generated.
Turnitin and ACU advise staff that the AI percentage should be used with caution, and that a positive finding does not automatically mean that academic misconduct has occurred. This is especially true when the indicator is less than 20%. Staff need to carefully review any flagged text and look for other characteristic signs of unauthorised AI. use, such as fabricated or inappropriate references. 
Turnitin does not detect changes made by grammar checking tools, including Grammarly. It will, however, detect content generated by GrammarlyGo, as this is a generative AI tool.  For a list of factors to consider when assessing unauthorised use of AI, visit the Academic Integrity FAQ page.
Supports available
LEO Guides have been updated to provide guidance to staff
Turnitin have provided resources, including a FAQ section
Students can access Academic Skills and Studiosity for assistance with academic writing 
Unauthorised use of artificial intelligence (AI) in work submitted for assessment is academic misconduct; but there can be confusion about the appropriateness of support tools.
Under ACU’s Student Academic Integrity and Misconduct Policy, unauthorised use of AI in work submitted for assessment is a form of academic misconduct. Any work submitted for assessment must be the student’s own (except for designated group work). 
Students should not use generative artificial intelligence tools (e.g. ChatGPT) or paraphrasing and translation tools (e.g. Quillbot) unless it is specifically authorised in the assessment requirements.  
Using programs that check spelling and grammar as you go (e.g. Grammarly) are not considered to be generative AI or paraphrasing tools, therefore they can be used. However, GrammarlyGo is a generative AI tool embedded into Grammarly and should not be used to help write assessments. Students should turn this feature off in their customisation settings by using the following instructions.
Earlier this year, Turnitin released a new tool that assists in detecting text generated by AI, that is not visible to students. When staff open a submission in Turnitin, it will appear as a ‘% AI’ figure which represents the percentage of qualifying text that Turnitin has determined to be AI generated.
Turnitin and ACU advise staff that the AI percentage should be used with caution, and that a positive finding does not automatically mean that academic misconduct has occurred. This is especially true when the indicator is less than 20%. Staff need to carefully review any flagged text and look for other characteristic signs of unauthorised AI. use, such as fabricated or inappropriate references. 
Turnitin does not detect changes made by grammar checking tools, including Grammarly. It will, however, detect content generated by GrammarlyGo, as this is a generative AI tool.  For a list of factors to consider when assessing unauthorised use of AI, visit the Academic Integrity FAQ page.
We all encounter university processes firsthand every day and sometimes these processes require improvements. Tell us what to fix.                                     
A message from Vice President Fr Anthony Casamento csma: This week is the most solemn week in the Church’s liturgical year, but what makes it holy?                                    
Discover the learning and career development opportunities that are available online and face-to-face next month, including Difficult Conversations, Lead from Anywhere and Creating Respectful Workplac...                                    
ACU has a new process for submitting cases of academic misconduct. From Monday 8 April, all potential cases must be lodged through the Student Academic Misconduct Management System (SAMMS).                                    
All ACU campuses will be closed between Friday 29 March and Monday 1 April inclusive for the Good Friday and Easter Monday public holidays (except for some library services).                                    
This week we are invited to participate in the greatest story ever told and the most moving drama ever imagined – the Holy Week.                                    
Register to attend the first Aquero lecture for 2024, ‘You are what you eat and how you sleep!’ divulging the lessons learned from 50 years working with elite athletes.                                    
ACU’s eMarketplace catalogue features a wide range of products from a growing list of preferred suppliers. Find out more about the ACU eMarketplace catalogue and how to access it.                                    
St Thomas Aquinas wrote a great deal about love and one of his most famous quotes is “To love is to will the good of the other”. Inherent in these words is a recognition of the authenticity of real lo...                                    
A message from Provost and Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic) Professor Julie Cogin: As I settle into the role and community, I’ve felt a warmth and culture of deep caring.                                    
Cut off dates for the submission of all timesheets and other supporting documentation for salary payments have been brought forward due to the Easter Holidays observed on 29 March and 1 April 2024                                    
Teaching staff are encouraged to check their units have been correctly linked to their names for the Student Evaluation of Learning and Teaching (SELT) surveys in upcoming teaching periods.                                     
Enhance support for your students by incorporating the standardised feedback comments, developed by the Academic Skills Unit, for use in Canvas SpeedGrader to save time.                                    
Wondering about the best way to ensure you research is more discoverable? Join the Library in this Research Essentials webinar.                                    
Be part of the ACU Big Sing for a big cause - a collaborative, community-wide project involving multiple campuses.                                    
Include an additional question in the Student Evaluation of Learning and Teaching (SELT) survey for units that are offered in Trimester 1 (202432).                                    
Having problems accessing library resources? Check out these tips to improve your access.                                    
A message from Vice-Chancellor and President Professor Zlatko Skrbis: Over the last three weeks, I had the pleasure of visiting all ACU campuses to introduce staff to Vision 2033, our strategy directi...                                    
It is important that staff are aware of the legislative obligations relating to international students.                                     
Join us on the road to Santiago De Compostela to undertake the Camino walk in Spain. The pilgrimage will take place 1–9 October 2024.
Visit Service Central to access Corporate Services.
Make a request for services provided by Corporate Services.
Find answers to frequently asked questions 24/7. 
Copyright
©Australian Catholic University 1998-2024 ABN 15050192660 Provider Number PRV12008 CRICOS Reg 00004G
Australian Catholic University acknowledges the traditional custodians of the lands on which we live and work, and we pay our respects to Elders both past and present.
                    
