Avondale College
https://libguides.avondale.edu.au/c.php?g=931307&p=6974390

If a student has permission from their lecturer to engage with artificial intelligence models for a particular assessment task, then they ‘‘… should use AI models in ethical and responsible ways that are consistent with their institution’s learning, assessment and academic integrity policies and procedures, and the terms of use of the AI providers’’ (Australian Academic Integrity Network  Generative AI Working Group, 2023).

Avondale University continues to encourage students to utilise a variety of resources, including textbooks, academic journals, and expert opinions, in order to develop their own ideas and perspectives. As with any information source, the use of ChatGPT for academic assignments should be in accordance with Avondale’s Academic Integrity Policy. Plagiarism, including the use of AI-generated content without a proper citation is taken seriously and can result in disciplinary action. We recognise that ChatGPT and other technologies can be useful tools for academic discussions and idea generation, but that these need to be used in connection with other sources and in accordance with Avondale University’s Academic Integrity Policy (CASTL, 2023).
Reference List
Australian Academic Integrity Network Generative AI Working Group. (2023). AAIN generative artificial intelligence guidelines. Tertiary Education Quality and Standard Agency. https://www.teqsa.gov.au/sites/default/files/2023-04/aain-generative-ai-guidelines.pdf
CASTL. (2023). Academic integrity and A.I. Avondale University.

 
APA Referencing Template
Author of model: The name of the company who made the software- eg the author of Bing AI Chat is Microsoft
Date: The year of the version you used
Title: The name of the AI generator
Version: Software is always being updated. Name the version of the AI tool in the format the company provides, bracketed after the title- eg. (ChatGTP 3.5) or (Mar 14 version)
Type or Description: Additional description when needed. This is to briefly describe the kind of model- eg. (Large language model) for ChatGPT or (Large multimodal model) for ChatGPT- 4
Source: If the publisher and the author are the same, do not include this element
URL: Give the link that references the generated content as closely as possible. Some AI Tools provide a unique URL for the conversation; use this. If the software doesn't provide a unique URL, use the general URL for the AI Tool
Appendix: Include a print out of the generated content as an appendix to your assessment. Remember to check the order that an appendix must appear in your academic paper.
Reference List
McAdoo, T. (2023, April 7). How to cite ChatGPT. APA Style. https://apastyle.apa.org/blog/how-to-cite-chatgpt
University of Newcastle Library Guides. (2023). Generative AI such as ChatGPT. https://libguides.newcastle.edu.au/apa-7th/other#s-lib-ctab-21210441-12
The University of Queensland Library. (2023). ChatGPT and other generative AI tools. https://guides.library.uq.edu.au/referencing/chatgpt-and-generative-ai-tools
 
 
Author. (Date). Title (version). Source. URL

OpenAI. (2023). ChatGPT (Mar 14 version) [Large language model]. https://chat.openai.com/chat             
You must include the full prompt/s and generated text as an appendix to your assessment task. 
The Appendix must begin on a new page and goes after the reference list. It must have the heading Appendix as well as a title for the appendix below the heading "Appendix". Both headings are Centred, Bold and Title Case Headings, as shown below. Then simply copy and paste the generated output below the headings, using double spacing and indent the paragraphs the same as your paper.
Appendix
What is a More Accurate Representation?
 
 
 Note: You should refer to the appendix at least once in the body of your paper. 
 
See student paper extract below. 
When given the prompt "What is a more accurate representation?” ChatGPT-generated text indicated that “different brain regions work together to support various cognitive processes” and “the functional specialisation of different regions can change in response to experience and environmental factors” (OpenAI, 2023; see Appendix for the full transcript). 
    
(Author, date)

(OpenAI, 2023; see Appendix A for full transcript)

Narrative citation
OpenAI (2023; see Appendix A for full transcript)
 
Figure number.
Title of the Image
Image
Note.
Figure 4
Pointillist Painting of a Mountain Scene

Note. Generated by Hotpot AI Art Generator, 2023. (https://hotpot.ai)
 
A secondary or indirect source refers to another author's content quoted by the author you are reading. For example, Bing AI Chat quotes a section of text from Jane Austen's writing.

As a standard research process, authors should evaluate all the references generated and used by an AI Generator for authenticity, accuracy and relevance. If the references are appropriate, "it may be better to read those original sources to learn from that research and paraphrase or quote from those articles, as applicable, than to use the model’s interpretation of them" (McAdoo, 2023). As a rule, secondary sources should only be used if the primary source is unattainable, eg. out of print or in another language.


Provide the reference for the secondary source used
Author. (Date). Title. (Version) [Description]. Source. URL
 
You must include the full prompt/s and generated text as an appendix to your assessment task
Reference List
McAdoo, T. (2023). How to cite ChatGPT. APA Style. https://apastyle.apa.org/blog/how-to-cite-chatgpt
Avondale University Academic Integrity Policy
Academic Integrity Policy - Avondale Policies - Confluence (atlassian.net)
Artificial Intelligence: Advice for Students
Artificial intelligence: Advice for students | Tertiary Education Quality and Standards Agency (teqsa.gov.au)
What are the limitations of ChatGPT?
ChatGPT has several limitations, as listed below:
Cochran, T., & Ryan, T. (2023). ChaptGPT and academic integrity: Options for adopting assessment in semester 1 2023. Melbourne Centre for the Study of Higher Education. https://melbourne-cshe.unimelb.edu.au/__data/assets/pdf_file/0008/4533218/ChatGPT-and-Academic-Integrity.pdf
