Bond University official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://bond.edu.au/current-students/study-information/integrity-at-bond/academic-integrity/generative-artificial
Oops, something went wrong.
Students at Bond University have begun using Generative Artificial Intelligence (Gen-AI) to benefit their work processes, where permitted. 
Gen-AI uses complex algorithms to generate text, images, data, sounds and videos based on existing data. Large Language Models, such as ChatGPT, produce text from large datasets in response to prompts. 
Gen-AI can quickly complete otherwise time-consuming tasks such as data gathering and analysis, and can serve as a valuable scoping tool for students.
While Gen-AI can assist your studies, it's important to be aware of the limitations and risks. Read on for further information about the use of GenAI at Bond University.
Some assessment tasks permit the use of Gen-AI and others do not. 
Students must check each assessment task sheet and follow the instructions provided. If it is still unclear, ask your educators, including Beyond Bond.
The use of Gen-AI at Bond must align with Bond’s Principles of Academic Integrity, and uphold the Student Code of Conduct and Academic Integrity Policy.
If you are a new student, complete the compulsory Academic Integrity Module. This module is also recommended for continuing students.
Do:
Don't:
If Gen-AI is permitted in an assessment task, there are still risks associated with using Gen-AI output. Students must consider the current risks, including: 
The unauthorised or improper use of Gen-AI is academic misconduct, as set out in the Student Code of Conduct Policy.
Research students should also refer to the Research Misconduct Policy. 
The styles used at Bond University are developed from specific instructions on how to cite and reference output from Gen-AI tools.
Librarians monitor notifications from each style manual and update the referencing style guides when new advice is received via their websites.
The Library has developed these FAQs and will review and update individual referencing style guides for the start of each semester.
Some assessment tasks permit the use of Gen-AI and others do not. 
Students must check each assessment task sheet and follow the instructions provided. If it is still unclear, ask your educators, including Beyond Bond.
The use of Gen-AI at Bond must align with Bond’s Principles of Academic Integrity, and uphold the Student Code of Conduct and Academic Integrity Policy.
If you are a new student, complete the compulsory Academic Integrity Module. This module is also recommended for continuing students.
Do:
Don't:
If Gen-AI is permitted in an assessment task, there are still risks associated with using Gen-AI output. Students must consider the current risks, including: 
The unauthorised or improper use of Gen-AI is academic misconduct, as set out in the Student Code of Conduct Policy.
Research students should also refer to the Research Misconduct Policy. 
The styles used at Bond University are developed from specific instructions on how to cite and reference output from Gen-AI tools.
Librarians monitor notifications from each style manual and update the referencing style guides when new advice is received via their websites.
The Library has developed these FAQs and will review and update individual referencing style guides for the start of each semester.
The use of Gen-AI differs across subjects and assessment tasks according to the learning outcomes being addressed.
Students must check each assessment task sheet for details of whether and how Gen-AI can be used. 
The below examples demonstrate how Gen-AI is being used in some assessments. 
Educator: Dr Sharon Micken, Faculty of Health Sciences & Medicine
Students in the Healthcare Innovations program can use Gen-AI to: 
1. Familiarise themselves with a topic.
2. Brainstorm and generate ideas.
3. Improve language proficiency, drafting and editing.
4. Generate images, videos, or voice recordings.
Students must extend Gen-AI output to create their analysis and conclusions, reference Gen-AI appropriately, and verify that Gen-AI output is reliable, unbiased and current. 
Educator: Assistant Professor Rob Layton, Faculty of Society & Design
Task: Students use Gen-AI tools to develop a creative piece of work such as a music album, story illustration or social media post.
They write a comprehensive report outlining their steps in the generative process including details of all prompts and variations of prompts, and a reflective report demonstrating their understanding of generative art.
Educator: Professor Jeff Brand, Faculty of Society and Design
Task: Students use Gen-AI to co-author a digital literacy portfolio. 
They present their portfolio in class, profiling their level of digital literacy in relation to career goals and career development priorities. 
Prior to this, students contribute ideas and exchange feedback on portfolio profiles during weekly forums and tutorials. 
Students diarise giving and receiving feedback and submit this as an appendix. 
They also reference quality information sources using a standard referencing style and acknowledge Gen-AI as a co-author. 
Educator: Associate Professor Catherine McDermott, Faculty of Health Sciences & Medicine
Task: Students complete a literature review in their chosen area of research for their Honours project. 
Gen-AI can be used to draft the structure, review, or rewrite paragraphs, and must be referenced appropriately. 
All drafts including, step-by-step processes, are submitted in a separate document upon final submission. 
This includes screenshots of inputs or prompts, and accompanying text/outputs indicating the paragraph/line/section where Gen-AI was used.
Educator: Thomas Coghlan, Transformation CoLab
Task: For two weeks of semester, students focus on artificial intelligence during which they analyse Gen-AI's suitability for various tasks. 
Students apply Gen-AI to a range of typical human outputs such as pop songs, scholarly summaries and lived-experience journals. 
They then reflect on the suitability of GAI for each task and come together for critical discussion. 
The exercise is repeated for outputs typical of their prospective industries in relation to labour effectiveness and professional integrity.
AIM is a 30-minute, online module that is compulsory for new students, recommended for continuing students and available to staff.
COMPLETE NOW
Copyright © Bond University
CRICOS Provider Code 00017B | TEQSA Provider ID PRV12072
