Bowling Green State University
https://www.bgsu.edu/its/support/ai-resources.html
We use cookies to provide you with the best experience and to help improve our website. View Privacy Statement
   
Defined by TechTarget.com, AI (Artificial Intelligence) is "the simulation of human intelligence processes by machines, especially computer systems", or the capability of a machine or computer to perform "human-specific tasks". Information Technology Services (ITS) recognizes that AI technology is becoming more prevalent and popular every day, especially in the higher education setting. New tools and iterations of existing tools are introduced often and understanding what AI tools are available can be overwhelming.
We have designed this webpage as a resource for BGSU students, faculty and staff to learn more about AI tools and features built-in to existing BGSU applications/currently being used at BGSU, to caution users on risks associated with using AI and to share resources to help detect AI use in coursework.
Please note: The resources listed on this page are for informational/awareness purposes only and does not reflect any official ITS or BGSU endorsement/stance on the use of AI tools.
*Formal project requests and procurement reviews are required for implementation of any new AI tool for university use. Questions regarding BGSU software can be directed to ITS at 419-372-0999 or ITSchat.bgsu.edu.
View List of BGSU-Provided Software
**If an AI tool is expected to provide BGSU-specific data/results, the user/using department is responsible for making sure the data is in place, accurate, and maintained.
When considering the use of AI tools, individuals often focus on the benefits of AI resources such as increased productivity and ROI, help designing lesson plans/lectures and assistance researching various topics. However, it is important to understand that with each of these benefits comes a series of potential risks, including data privacy, legal and ethical risks. These risks can come in the form of external hackers utilizing AI to attack the University and internal BGSU users using AI for university business/coursework. The information below is meant to help you remain cautious and proactive when utilizing AI tools to protect yourself and the University. 
AI tools pose cybersecurity risks to the University because they open up the doors for hackers to use services like chatbots to create malware and use conversations for phishing and advertising scams. While vendors do their best to prohibit such malicious uses, bad actors can and do find workarounds. Users should be as vigilant when interacting with AI tools as they are with emails and other phishing attempts.
Learn More About Phishing
Often, the information collected by an AI tool is considered "public" information, so be wary of what you are divulging during interactions. AI tools may collect information such as IP address, browser information, site interactions/browsing activity and more. And they may share it with third parties. Do not share any personal information, proprietary BGSU information or confidential information regarding students/potential students, coworkers, customers or partners (for example, student personal data, contractual or health information) when interacting with AI.
If you are considering implementing an AI tool in your area, be sure to review the vendor's privacy policies/disclosures* and comply with all relative data protection laws for data processing. Also, be sure to provide users with opt-out and deletion options. We also advise that instructors provide students with information on data privacy risks associated with AI tools used during courses as well as information on protecting personal/sensitive data in their course syllabus and/or when using the AI tool. 
*In general, most service/application privacy policies can be found on the vendor's website. We suggest checking the FAQ section, the bottom/footer of the website or the location where the End User License Agreement (EULA) is stored. 
AI tools can process large amounts of data, quickly. While this may sound great, they have the potential to make biased or discriminatory decisions that could result in unfair treatment and discrimination. 
AI tools can also be used to draft papers/presentations and assist with assignments and/or research. The extent to which this is acceptable can be blurry. Students may use AI to help complete coursework; thus, instructors may need to rely on AI detection tools to assist in determining if submissions are plagiarised or completely AI-generated. 
AI may also assist in the development of research, patents, and other intellectual property (IP). Disputes may arise over who owns IP developed with AI help (especially if multiple contributors are involved) and there is even an argument as to whether or not intellectual property generated by AI tools can even be protected. 
It may also be tempting to use AI to assist in the creation of communications, webpages, press releases, etc., for University use. This should be approached with caution as such content could contain inaccuracies, biases, misinformation and not appropriately convey the true intentions/sentiment of the message. 
AI tools serve as an opportunity for the cultivation and dissemination of false information. Hackers may utilize AI to generate articles and documentation with false context to help spread conspiracy theories and false narratives quickly and at minimal cost. 
*Much of the information in this section is referenced from WilmerHale's  "The Top 10 Legal and Business Risks of Chatbots and Generative AI" (Feb. 2023).
View Full Article to Review All 10 AI Risks
Many of the applications BGSU owns/supports have built-in AI tools available to users. Below are some of the tools for which you can take advantage as a BGSU user.
Copilot is an AI assistant/productivity tool aimed to help users create documents, emails, presentations and more. Similar to ChatGPT, it allows the input of prompts to produce a suggested output based on that prompt. Copilot is available across all Office 365 apps (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook, Teams, etc.).
Word
Give prompts to write content or reword/edit existing text. Provides suggestions to strengthen existing writing. Can be helpful when drafting research papers, presentations, lesson plans, syllabi, etc. 
Excel
Manage & analyze data, add charts, suggest new formulas, etc. These can be used as visual aids during lectures, business meetings or for student coursework. 
PowerPoint
Take existing written documents and transform them into presentations, including speaker notes, stock images and sources. Can also create a completely new slide deck from a simple prompt or outline. This features reduces the time needed to turn lesson plans/notes into digital slideshows and can help students, faculty and staff enhance presentations, meetings, projects and more. 
Outlook
Manage email by summarizing lengthy threads, respond to messages via prompts and generate meeting invites. Use these tools to help organize your BGSU email account and calendar. 
Teams
Summarize meeting points and topics of discussion. In chat, provide answers to specific questions, highlight missed messages and create meeting agendas based on chat history. 
Learn More About Copilot
View Microsoft's AI Self-Help Articles
Microsoft Teams offers a live meeting captioning service via AI verbal recognition.
Learn More About Live Captions in MS Teams
Zoom uses an AI assistant tool called Zoom IQ (similar to Microsoft Copilot). Zoom IQ creates smart recordings for quick access to meeting information in the form of chapters, recording highlights and action items. Zoom IQ can also summarize chat threads and organize ideas to create content for emails, chats, whiteboard sessions, meeting agendas and more. Zoom also has an auto-closed caption feature for use in Zoom meetings and Zoom Rooms. Take advantage of these features when holding virtual lectures and meetings. 
Learn More About Zoom IQ
The ITS chatbot uses a vendor-created chatbot engine to answer user inquiries about ITS service offerings, various systems and technologies used at BGSU, and common computing tasks. Users can chat with the bot just like they would a human. The chatbot engine uses a three-stage approach to responding to inquiries to ensure that all inquiries are answered as accurately and efficiently as possible. 
Ask the ITS Chatbot a Question
ITS Chatbot Tips & Tricks
Adobe Creative Cloud applications have several built-in AI tools that you might not even realize you are using. For example, Photoshop includes AI tools like Select Subject, Select Sky/Sky Replacement, Auto Tone, etc. 
Adobe & Artificial Intelligence
Adobe Help Center
Grammarly* is an AI typing assistant that specializes in grammar and spelling checks. It also offers predictive writing revision suggestions on correctness, tone, style and more. Grammarly offers a basic version for free but Premium subscriptions must be purchased. 
*Grammarly has been approved for use at BGSU but departments/users must submit a Software Procurement request to purchase a license(s). 
Learn More About Grammarly
Grammarly Tips & Tutorials
BGSU's Starship Robot food delivery service utilizes autonomous robots to deliver food to the campus community. Starship Robots are self-driving and use cameras and sensors to safely navigate to their delivery locations. 
Learn More About Starship Robots
The BGSU Center for Faculty Excellence (CFE) has developed a webpage similar to this, focused on AI generative tools and teaching. 
View the Generative Artificial Intelligence & Teaching Website 
While AI can certainly be helpful for University business and academics, the use of AI by students to assist with assignments and/or tests is not ideal. The below listed resources can assist with detecting/preventing the use of AI for coursework.
BGSU instructors can utilize Respondus Lockdown Browser for online assessments to prevent users from using AI assistance. Respondus works as an AI protector and puts online assessments in full screen mode so test-takers cannot minimize their screen to open others. It also removes standard menus/toolbars. Users can only select the refresh, forward, back, or stop keys during the test. This tool impacts the entire device. 
Learn More About Respondus Lockdown Browser
Respondus & ChatGPT
Turnitin, the Canvas assignment review Learning Tool Integration (LTI) now includes AI writing detection capabilities. The AI Writing Indicator is available in the Similarity Report and shows what overall percentage of the assignment may have been AI-generated. 
Learn More About Turnitin AI Detection
AI Detection Reliability
Updated: 08/09/2023 08:56AM

Bowling Green State University
                    Bowling Green, Ohio
                    43403-0001 
419-372-2531


Make A Gift

It is the responsibility of each person within the university community to take action when an issue or concern arises.
