California Polytechnic State University - San Luis Obispo official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://ctlt.calpoly.edu/resources-for-teaching-and-learning-with-AI


Image by Gerd Altmann from Pixabay
Are you interested in participating in a faculty learning community for teaching with AI? If so, please complete our survey: AI Learning Community Survey.
Visit the Events page for Teaching and Learning with AI to find out about current professional development opportunities.
The purpose of this webpage is to provide some basic resources for faculty regarding the use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in teaching and learning. These resources were curated by CTLT staff with their expertise in higher education pedagogy, instructional design, academic technology, writing instruction, and accessibility. The inclusion of any material is not intended to reflect its importance nor is it intended to endorse any views expressed or products or services offered. We recognize that AI changes rapidly, and we will update this page as we can.
We hope you will find these resources useful and we welcome your feedback: CTLT@calpoly.edu.
The following resources focus on an overview of AI in higher education. We include two glossaries of common AI terms. 
The following AI syllabus statements and classroom policies were created by educators at various higher education institutions. Statements include options for no use of AI, limited use, and extensive use, depending on the course and instructor.
The following resources address concerns regarding academic integrity when using AI. We include AI citation guidelines.
The following resources provide guidelines for citing and referencing ChatGPT and other AI tools using the style guide appropriate to your discipline:
The following resources provide an overview of bias in AI systems. AI bias refers to the tendency of algorithms to reflect human biases, since output is based on human-generated AI training data and reflects historical and social inequities. 
The following resources provide an overview of ethical concerns and challenges regarding AI systems and their use, including privacy and security, copyright and data ownership, inaccuracies in output, and more.
The following resources provide examples of teaching with AI in the higher education classroom.
The following resources provide guidance on building AI literacy skills, including understanding how technologies like machine learning and generative AI work, how they can be used for problem-solving, and the technology’s consequences.
The following resources were developed by educators at other CSU campuses. We will continue to update this section as more campuses create and share their resources.
Faculty Resources
Want to learn more?
Workshops
Cal Poly Canvas...
Learn More
Diversity & Inclusion in the Classroom.
More about inclusion
​Writing across the curriculum.
Writing Matters
CONNECT WITH CAL POLY
© 2024 California Polytechnic State University    San Luis Obispo, California 93407Phone: 805-756-1111

