California State University, San Bernadino official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://www.csusb.edu/inside/tags/40136
Gregory Gondwe (communication studies) discussed the embedded stereotypes and biases in Generative AI models that put the Global South at a disadvantage, and Angela Allen (director of OLLI) talked about the PDC Osher Lifelong Learning Institute in an article about struggling theaters.
The free screening of Shalini Kantayya’s 2020 documentary and the faculty panel that follows will be held from noon to 2:15 p.m. at the university’s Santos Manuel Student Union Theater (SMSU South, Room 107). Attendees can also join via Zoom. 
The university will host a faculty panel on the use of artificial intelligence apps such as ChatGPT in academia, Sharon Velarde Pierce (public administration) is CSUSB’s 2022-23 Outstanding Faculty Advisor, and Brian Levin (criminal justice) was cited in an article on a new book about Chinese laborers brought to the U.S. in the late 1800s.
A panel of CSUSB faculty members from a cross section of academic disciplines will share their insights and perspectives on ChatGPT and its implications for instruction, research and writing.
Sonia Otte, MSPA founding program director, Daniel MacDonald, associate professor and chair of the economics department, and Brian Levin, director of CSUSB’s Center for the Study of Hate and Extremism, were each interviewed in their area of expertise. 
Kate Liszka (history), Yunfei Hou (computer science and engineering) and Brian Levin (criminal justice) were mentioned in recent news coverage.
The grant will promote artificial intelligence education for non-computer science majors and teach them how to apply AI concepts and methods to identify and analyze social problems and how to fix them.
The EDUCAUSE Learning Initiative Annual Meeting is a premier event where faculty, IT personnel and industry partners explore different technology-driven approaches to broad learning issues and share expertise across institutions.
In this Regional Mobility Dialogue, presented by the Leonard Transportation Center at CSUSB on Tuesday, April 19, experts will examine how big data, artificial intelligence and intelligent technologies can improve equity in transportation systems. The event will be presented virtually.   
California State University, San Bernardino
5500 University Parkway
San Bernardino, CA 92407
+1 (909) 537-5000
