California State University, Stanislaus official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://www.csustan.edu/office-assessment/program-level-assessment/develop-your-syllabus
Mary Stuart Rogers, MSR 376
Check back often for updates. This page will evolve as we continue to address/reflect on best/recommended practices and campus policy.
As noted on the MERLOT website: "A syllabus is a contract with the student on what knowledge will be gained, what content will be covered, the manner in which content will be covered and measured and an outline for accomplishing all of that." For more on syllabi and learning contracts see Pedagogy Community Portal. 
Syllabi inform students about what is expected of them to meet course requirements. Senate resolution 2/AS/14/UEPC establishes that all courses shall have a syllabus and the syllabus shall be made available to students at or near the start date of the course. The syllabus shall include, but not be limited to the following:
In addition to the required components, additional information that should be included on the course syllabus include statements on:
The majority of grade appeals result from problems with a course syllabus and most grade appeals involve new instructors.
The most common student questions can be addressed by a syllabus that includes the eight components listed below.
 
Syllabus Components
FAQs Addressed
General Education Course syllabi will include the General Education Learning Goals/Outcomes. It is important to explain to students the value of taking GE courses. These courses expand their knowledge base to make them informed citizens and increase their understanding of the world and their role in it.
A WP course is an upper division course in any department designated as a Writing Proficiency course by the University Writing Committee. In a WP course, students are expected to write as an integral part of learning course content and preparing for their career. A grade of C- or higher in the WP course indicates that the department endorses the student's writing competency.
Dr. Debra Bukko provided an Inclusive Syllabus workshop in spring 2019 as part of the Certificate in Inclusive Teaching program. This document was updated in 2024 based on her research with resources sourced from various universities. 
Inclusive Syllabus Resources 2024
The Academic Technology and Learning Committee (ATLC) and the University Educational Policies Committee (UEPC) will be considering the issues, challenges, and opportunities posed by artificial intelligence (AI) tools. The Senate Executive Committee recommends that faculty include an explicit statement in their syllabi regarding the appropriateness of using AI tools for coursework.
 
The syllabus template includes components discussed on this page as well as a variety of supplemental statements. Please feel free to use or adapt both the formatting and the content. The template includes information relevant to both traditional and online courses.
Updated: March 18, 2024
Proud member of the 23-campus California State University
© California State University, Stanislaus, One University Circle, Turlock, CA 95382
Website Copyright/DMCA Policy
