Chadron State College official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://www.csc.edu/tlpec/resources/faculty-resources/
 
Using AI & ChatGPT in College

AI Use: Sample Statements & Reference Citations

    This PDF offers tiered statements and sample citation formatting that faculty can use in syllabi or assignment instructions. Visit CSC's Library webpage, "Guides & Tutorials," for more instructional support when citing AI. 

    Additional Sample Language for AI Statement for Syllabus
        ** This statement was created by Laura Bentz and shared with her permission. Please attribute credit to Laura Bentz when using this material.  **
        Students are expected to learn and demonstrate their understanding of the course material - they may be asked to do this through written responses, quizzes, and even hands-on artmaking. Students are expected to complete assignments on their own, creating their own original work; using AI tools like Grammarly AI to refine or assist in the technical writing of an assignment can help students better understand how to construct coherent sentences and articulate essays/papers. AI should be viewed as a tool rather than a means to plagiarize. It is crucial to realize that responses crafted by ChatGPT, Google AI, or similar tools may not correctly convey terminology and information or demonstrate the student's ability to apply what they know.
    AI Foundational Guide for Higher Ed
    APA- How to use ChatGPT as a learning tool
    ChatGPT for Teachers: Create a Quiz Using ChatGPT
    ARS Techinca- Arizona law school embraces ChatGPT use in student applications
    NPR- 'Everybody is cheating': Why this teacher has adopted an open ChatGPT policy
    Instructure- AI with Boundaries: Managing ChatGPT in Intentional, Safe, and Equitable Ways
    Universities.com- How are Colleges and Universities Responding to ChatGPT?
    Wired.com- ChatGPT Is Making Universities Rethink Plagiarism
    Financial Review- ChatGPT a threat to unis but that shouldn't be where their focus lies
    Webinar: AI with Boundaries: The Right Way to Manage ChatGPT and its Potential Disruption of Higher Ed.

Blue and black city scape in the background. White lettering says ChatGPT and OpenAI. White flower circle logo for Open AI next to the words. In the right hand corner there is a white robot hand open. A white digital brain is coming out of the hand. Inside the digital brain is what looks like a white computer chip. The center of the computer chip says AI.
Turnitin AI Resources

File requirements for submission to be processed for Turnitin AI writing detection:

    File size must be less than 100 MB.
    File must have at least 500 words of prose text and not exceed 15,000 words.
    File must be written in English long form writing format.

Accepted file types: .docx, .pdf, .txt, .rtf

    Turnitin AI Writing Detection
    Guide for approaching AI-generated text in your classroom.
    Updating your academic integrity policy in the age of AI
    Discussion starters for tough conversations about AI
    Approaching a student regarding potential AI misuse.
    Misuse checklist or rubric?
             AI misuse checklist
             AI misuse rubric
    AI use/misuse activity guide
    AI use/misuse activity
    AI conversations: Handling false positives for educators.
    AI-generated text: What educators are saying.
    AI writing: An annotated hotlist for educators | May 2023


AI Use: Sample Statements & Reference Citations
The following statements include examples of language that may be adapted for use in course
syllabi, class policies, or lesson instructions.
General AI Statement
AI tools, such as ChatGPT, are not a replacement for a students’ own critical thinking and
original ideas. The goal of this course, and of any tool used to submit work, is to enhance your
own learning and understanding, not to undermine it. If you have questions about what is
permitted, reach out to your instructor.
Tiered Statements
Use prohibited
Using AI to write your paper is plagiarism. Students are not allowed to use advanced automated
tools (artificial intelligence or machine learning tools, such as ChatGPT or Dall-E 2) on
assignments in this course. Each student is expected to complete each assignment without
substantive assistance from others, including automated tools. If the source of the work is
unclear, I may require you to meet with me to explain the ideas and your writing process.
Use with prior permission
As a college student, it is your responsibility to maintain the highest standards of academic
integrity. Representing work generated by artificial intelligence (AI) as one's own work is
academically dishonest. This includes (a) ensuring that all work submitted for grades is your
own original work, and (b) properly citing any sources that you use. Students are allowed to use
advanced automated tools (artificial intelligence or machine learning tools such as ChatGPT or
Dall-E 2) on assignments in this course if instructor permission is obtained in advance or an
assignment specifically includes an option to use AI tools. Unless given permission to use AI
tools, each student is expected to complete each assignment without substantive assistance
from others, including automated tools.
Use with acknowledgement
Students are allowed to use advanced automated tools (artificial intelligence or machine
learning tools such as ChatGPT or Dall-E 2) on assignments if the use is properly documented
and credited. For example, text generated using ChatGPT-3 should include a citation such as:
Chat-GPT-3. (YYYY, Month DD of query). “Text of your query.” Generated using OpenAI.
https://chat.openai.com/
Material generated using other tools should follow a similar citation convention (see style
guides), and instructors reserve the right to request an oral explanation of answers.
Citations for Content Generated by Artificial Intelligence (AI) Tools
Include both in-text citations and full citations in the Works Cited or References page for AI
generated content including, but not limited to text, images, videos, audio, code, etc.
General APA Format for References
In APA, generative AI tools are treated similarly to software. The company or creator of the tool
is considered the “author.” This is the format for References entries:
Company or creator of the tool. (Year this version was released). Name of the AI tool or model
(version information if known such as version number, version date, or version name)
[Type of AI Model]. URL link address to general site of AI tool or to specific content if
available.
Examples
OpenAI. (2023). ChatGPT [Large language model]. https://chat.openai.com/share/1483a831-
2726-4d47-91d6-924a7b8a1c72
OpenAI. (2022). DALL-E (version 2) [Large text-to-image model].
https://labs.openai.com/s/W8Jar2MsCI7UxAyR65ufi7NK
Style Guides
▪ Chadron State College - King Library Guides & Tutorials webpages
▪ APA citation of AI: https://apastyle.apa.org/blog/how-to-cite-chatgpt
▪ MLA citation of AI: https://style.mla.org/citing-generative-ai/
▪ Chicago Manual citation of AI:
https://www.chicagomanualofstyle.org/qanda/data/faq/topics/Documentation/faq042
2.html
References
Brandeis University Center for Teaching and Learning. (n.d.) Possible AI syllabus statements.
January 16, 2024, from https://www.brandeis.edu/teaching/resources/syllabus/ai-
statements.html
Mamak, L., & L. Mosher. (2024, January 4). APA citations for content generated by artificial
intelligence (AI) tools. https://www.normandale.edu/_files/documents/library/ai-
apa.pdf . Creative Commons Attribution – ShareAlike 4.0 International License.