Charles Sturt University official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://www.csu.edu.au/current-students/studying/assignments-and-exams/generative-ai
Now searching for:
Generative AI is software that creates content based on a set of data.
Tools such as ChatGPT have made waves in the academic community and the technology is fast evolving. It is important for you to understand the rules around the use of this technology for your own learning.
Charles Sturt University has decided generative AI tools cannot be used in your assessment items in most cases.
If AI use is permitted in your subject, this will be clearly stated in the subject outline.
If you're unsure if you can use one of these tools in your assessments, contact your subject coordinator. They'll be able to advise if the software you are planning to use is suitable or allowed to be used.
When using AI tools, ethical and responsible use principles such as transparency, academic integrity and fairness should be considered. For more information, please refer to Charles Sturt University's Statement of Principles for the use of Artificial Intelligence. Have a question about the principles? Email academicquality@csu.edu.au.
Our stance on Generative AI has not changed the value we place on Academic Integrity. It’s important your assessment tasks reflect your own work, allowing us to accurately assess your understanding of course material. This ensures you can work successfully and safely in your future career.
Generative AI can often create content that is inaccurate, incorrectly referenced, poorly worded, and not of appropriate academic quality. It could be considered a breach of Academic Integrity, which may have consequences for you both personally and professionally.
If you use a generative AI to create content for your assessment task when it is not permitted, you will be penalised under the Student Misconduct Rule 2020 and the Academic Integrity Policy. This will be treated as cheating.
Always check the assessment questions and criteria in your subject outline to ensure your work meets the requirements. If you’re unsure about your assessment, or whether generative AI is permitted, please check with your subject coordinator.
In addition to the general use of AI, the examples below outline specific times when it’s also not appropriate.
Everyday tools such as web browsers, proof reading applications and even word processors now have new GenAI capability embedded in them. For example Grammarly previously offered spelling and grammatical assistance, however it now can generate, rewrite and reply with a simple click of a button.
Instead, check your refencing against the appropriate referencing guide and ART tool.
If your subject outline permits the use of Generative AI, you do need to reference this (like any other resource you use). The APA Referencing Summary has been updated with how to do this.
Instead, check out our Library guides.
Our Academic Skills team has partnered with Studiosity to help you with your writing.
You can also see our grammar and spelling guide.
This would be considered a breach of the university's academic integrity policy. You can use our academic skills resources to help you with writing, referencing and much more.
We know that generative AI is being adopted in workplaces and its use will continue to grow.
There may be times during your course where you’ll be learning to use these tools, so we’ll be finding appropriate assessment tasks to help you use it ethically. These assessments will specifically permit the use of AI as part of the assessment criteria in your subject outline.
The Turnitin AI Text Detection Tool was discontinued for Session 3 2023, and from 1 January 2024, Charles Sturt no longer uses AI detection tools.
Contact the Office of Academic Quality and Standards by emailing academicquality@csu.edu.au.
We’re committed to putting students at the centre of everything we do, hence the decision to discontinue this tool. As Generative AI technologies such as ChatGPT continue to advance in capability, the ability of these tools to accurately and reliably detect AI generated text will become increasingly challenging. We are aligned with our regulating body, TEQSA, with this decision.
We’re continually creating and updating resources and training to help our students understand responsible Generative AI use. These include and are not limited to:
Many Australian and international universities decided not to enable the Turnitin AI detection tool when it was released in early 2023 and they do not use any AI detection software now. This decision did not impact existing collaborations with these institutions, and the decision to discontinue the use of the Turnitin AI detection tool will likewise not impact any existing or future collaborations with other universities.
The Australian regulator, TEQSA, also does not require universities to use AI detection software. Their most recent statement regarding these tools is that ‘…it appears almost impossible to detect if these technologies have been used in the production of assessment products in a reliable way’.
Whether an institution does or doesn’t use this tool is not an indicator of the robustness of their academic integrity monitoring processes. The tool itself is not the issue. Instead, TEQSA and our accrediting bodies require that we uphold stringent academic and research integrity standards. Our policies are aimed at preventing misconduct, including plagiarism and data fabrication, and we provide clear guidelines to help you understand and adhere to these principles. We take proactive measures to mitigate risks to integrity and ensure accountability in all aspects of higher education, including collaborations and external partnerships.
The decision to discontinue using the tool will not impact academic integrity investigations that have been finalised, nor will it impact current/ongoing investigations.
The Turnitin AI detection tool formed just one part of a comprehensive academic integrity monitoring process, led by our Academic Integrity Officers. Findings of Poor Academic Practice or Academic Misconduct are not based on the results of the tool alone and encompass detailed investigations by staff.
The Turnitin AI Detection Tool will be shut down for Session 202390 subjects, and from Monday 1 January 2024. Charles Sturt will not use the Turnitin Tool or any other AI text detection software from this date.
Check your referencing with ART
Get help with your academic skills
Check your grammar and spelling
'Yindyamarra Winhanganha' - The wisdom of respectfully knowing how to live well in a world worth living in
We pay our respect to all First Nations elders both past and
            present from the lands where Charles Sturt University students reside. In particular, we acknowledge the Wiradjuri,
            Ngunawal, Gundungurra, and Birpai peoples of Australia, who are the traditional custodians of the land
            where Charles Sturt University campuses are located.
