Curtin University of Technology official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://www.curtin.edu.au/students/essentials/rights/academic-integrity/
Ready to apply?
Academic integrity at its core is about honesty and responsibility and is fundamental to Curtin’s expectations of you. This means that all of your work at Curtin should be your own and it should be underpinned by integrity, which means to act ethically, honestly and with fairness.
As a Curtin student you are part of an academic community and you are asked to uphold the University’s Code of Conduct, principles of academic integrity, and Curtin’s five core values of integrity, respect, courage, excellence and impact during your studies.
You are also expected to uphold the Student Charter and recognise that cheating, plagiarism collusion, and falsification of data and other forms of academic dishonesty are not acceptable.
Curtin recognises that students who are unfamiliar with the conventions of academic writing can sometimes unintentionally plagiarise or collude on assessments. This may happen if you inadequately acknowledge resources or collaborate with other students when an assessment should be done individually.
An academic integrity warning is used to assign you an educative action in these situations so you can learn from your mistakes. More serious academic breaches such as cheating are managed as misconduct.
Academic misconduct refers to conduct by a student that is dishonest or unfair in connection with any academic work.
Academic work means
Allegations of misconduct are managed in accordance with Statute 10: Student Discipline. The student conduct guide [.pdf 1.46MB] helps explain the process if you receive an allegation of misconduct.
You can confidentially report academic dishonesty through the Dixon Webform.
Poor academic practice is academic misconduct that is not dishonest and the advantage gained is only moderate. Examples of poor academic practice are inadequate paraphrasing or incorrect referencing.
This type of misconduct has more severe penalties than an academic integrity warning (educative action only) but has less severe penalties than plagiarism.
Presenting the work or property of another as your own without appropriate acknowledgement or referencing.
Acting dishonestly or unfairly in order to gain an advantage. Examples include:
Cheating in an exam, test or supervised assessment activity.
Considered Academic Misconduct:
Considered General Misconduct:
Cheating in an assessment or other assessable work:
Where students act together in relation to the preparation or presentation of any assessed item of work in a manner that is dishonest or unfair. Examples include:
Misrepresenting data within an assessment or within research.  Examples include:
Academic dishonesty that does not fall into the other misconduct categories.
The AIP is an online program that will help you better understand academic integrity at Curtin. It’s compulsory for all students beginning a new course. Learn more about the AIP.
The academic integrity student guide [.pdf 2.4MB] provides:
The student conduct guide [.pdf 2.89MB] provides guidance on warning (academic integrity warnings and student charter breaches) and misconduct processes.
Use the student checklist to prevent plagiarism [.pdf 98kB] when submitting assessments.
It is important to learn the appropriate referencing style used within your course.
Referencing provides readers with information to determine where you have taken your ideas from, how widely you have read about the topic, and to decide how well you have understood the material and incorporated ideas into your own understanding. The Curtin library has a wide range of resources and workshops available to support you with writing, referencing, and other study skills.
EndNote is free software for students that can help you manage your references, automatically insert citations into your work, and generate a reference list.
See these resources for more detailed definitions of plagiarism, examples, and guidelines on how to avoid it:
Generative Artificial Intelligence (Gen-AI) technology like Chat GPT, Bard, Midjourney, and GitHub Copilot is software focused on creating new content such as text, images, code or audio. This technology is rapidly improving and becoming available for mainstream use.
Curtin supports the philosophy of teaching students to appropriately use Gen-AI software in an ethical and responsible way to prepare them for future professional working environments. Visit the library website on Gen-AI for more information.
General information:
Using Gen-AI software within assessment tasks:
The takeaway point: when submitting any assessment, the final product must be your own work, not just output copied from Gen-AI software.
Copyright is a legal concept which gives the creator of intellectual property a set of specific rights associated with their works. This means that you usually need their permission to copy, publish, communicate, adapt or publicly perform their works.
Also note that if you are using Gen-AI software, you are not permitted to upload work that does not belong to you. This includes, lecture slides, assessment questions, and tutorial content in which Curtin owns the copyright.
The library has created an information sheet [.pdf 189kB] for students. For more detailed definitions of copyright, examples, and guidelines on how to adhere to it see Curtin’s copyright website.
Curtin has a range of English language support programs for you to better develop your skills.
Curtin subscribes to an electronic text matching service called Turnitin, which compares text in submitted students’ work with text from a database of sources. The database contains copies of text from websites, in published works, in commercial databases and in assignments previously submitted to Turnitin by students from Curtin and other universities all over the world, including assignments from websites that sell student papers. Turitin also detects content written by Gen-AI software therefore you must be transparent about your use of these tools as part of any assessment task.
Academic integrity cartoons
Conversations
Managing your time
Preparing for exams
Note making for assignments
Referencing
Avoiding academic integrity breaches
The VC’s message – Conduct at Curtin
Statute 10 -student discipline and the associated rules
Assessment and student progression manual
Academic integrity student guide [.pdf 2.4MB]
Student checklist to prevent plagiarism [.pdf 98kB]
Student conduct guide [.pdf 2.89MB]
Help with academic writing, referencing and study skills
Endnote guides
Report academic dishonesty
Curtin University acknowledges all First Nations of this place we call Australia and recognises the many nations who have looked after Country for more than 60,000 years.
        We are honoured and grateful for the privilege to maintain campuses operating in Boorloo (Perth) and Karlkurla (Kalgoorlie) in Australia. We pay our respects to Elders past
        and present as Custodians and Owners of these lands. We recognise their deep knowledge and their cultural, spiritual and educational practices, and aspire to learn and teach
        in partnership with them. Curtin also acknowledges First Nations peoples connected with our global campuses. We are committed to working in partnership with all Custodians
        and Owners to strengthen and embed First Nations’ voices and perspectives in our decision-making, now and into the future.
ABN 99 143 842 569.
CRICOS Provider Code 00301J.
TEQSA PRV12158
