Eastern Kentucky University official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://ekuonline.eku.edu/

Eastern Kentucky University Online provides the education and skills needed to turn your job search into a rewarding career with advancement opportunities. Applications are now being accepted and are FREE.
Eastern Kentucky University offers more than 100 undergraduate, graduate, certificate and non-degree programs in a convenient, online format. Whether you want to start, finish or advance your education, EKU Online has a program that can fit your schedule and your needs.
Learn how EKU Online can help students and families identify ways of maximizing available funds, allowing students to focus more on succeeding in school and less on financial resources.
Take the online learning readiness quiz to see if an online program is right for you. The ability to balance work, family life and school are important for success. Online programs offer the flexibility to meet your obligations while advancing your education and opportunities.
Eastern Kentucky University is consistently recognized as being one of the best online colleges in the nation.
Eastern Kentucky University is a nationally recognized public university located in Richmond, Kentucky. Established in 1874, EKU strives to make quality education available to everyone.  A brick-and-mortar accredited institution, EKU began offering online degrees in 2006 and continues to service all students with our on-campus offerings.
The University offers more than 100 online programs in various areas of study, designed for adult learners who want to earn a college degree or certificate while working full-time or juggling other life priorities. Online programs are available through the College of Letters, Arts and Social Sciences, College of Business, College of Science, Technology, Engineering & Mathematics, College of Education & Applied Human Sciences, College of Health Sciences, and College of Justice, Safety & Military Science.
See All Awards & Accolades

521 Lancaster Ave.
Richmond, KY 40475
859-622-4455

onlinedegrees@eku.edu
Accreditation
State Authorization
Awards & Accolades
Apply Now
Transfer
Student Resources
Contact Us
Test Drive a Course
Eastern Kentucky University
 
