Eastern Washington University
https://staging-in.ewu.edu/it/wp-content/uploads/sites/14/2023/10/Generative-AI-Guidelines-1.pdf
Title: Employee Guidelines for Responsible Use of Generative AI
A. Purpose
This procedure is meant to provide guidance to faculty, staff, and student employee usage of generative AI in their
administrative work for Eastern Washington University. These guidelines are not intended to apply to the academic
work of faculty or students and does not constitute, replace, or override any academic policies.
B. Definitions
Generative AI - Generative artificial intelligence (AI) is a technology that can create content, including text, images,
audio, or video, when prompted by a user. Generative AI systems create responses using algorithms that are trained
often on open-source information, such as text and images from the internet. However, generative AI systems are
not cognitive and lack human judgment (GAO 23-106782).
C. Procedure
Principles
In accordance with official state of Washington policy, Eastern Washington University has adopted these guiding
principles on the usage of AI:
● Safe, secure, and resilient
● Valid and reliable
● Fairness, inclusion, and non-discrimination
● Privacy and data protection
● Accountability and responsibility
● Transparency and auditability
● Explainable and interpretable
● Academic purpose and social benefit
Fact-checking, Bias Reduction, and Review
All content generated by AI should be reviewed and fact-checked. Faculty and staff generating with or using content
from AI systems should verify that the content does not contain inaccurate, outdated, or biased information and
potentially harmful or offensive material.
Disclosure and Attribution
Where appropriate, the use of AI-generated content used in official university capacity should be clearly cited or
labeled as such. This allows for transparent authorship and responsible content evaluation.
Copyright
It is currently the policy of the United States Copyright Office that materials produced by generative AI that does not
substantially involve human authorship is not eligible for copyright. For additional guidance, review the US Copyright
Office’s Notice on Artificial Intelligence and Copyright.
Sensitive or Confidential Data
Faculty and staff should not integrate, enter, or otherwise incorporate any non-public data or information (e.g FERPA,
non-Category 1 data, HIPAA, etc.) into publicly accessible generative AI systems (e.g., ChatGPT, Bard, CoPilot). The
use of such data could lead to unauthorized disclosures, legal liabilities, fines, and other consequences.
If you need to use non-public data with generative AI technology, contact EWU Information Technology or the Risk,
Compliance & Procurement Office for further guidance.
EWU departments should not acquire generative AI services, enter into service agreements with generative AI
vendors, or use open-source AI generative technology without approval from Information Technology and the Risk,
Compliance & Procurement Office. Under Washington state law, this usage will require a data sharing agreement.
Compliance with Policies and Regulations
State law, Federal law, federal regulations, and university policy already restricts the sharing of confidential
information with unauthorized third parties. Please refer to the University’s Information Security policy for additional
information and guidance.
Be aware that using a generative AI system will likely result in creating a public record under Washington state's
Public Records Act.
Generative AI Usage Recommendations
Below are some do’s (best practices) and don’ts (things to avoid):
● Rewrite documents in plain language for better accessibility and understandability
○ Do specify the reading level in the prompt, use readability apps to ensure the text is easily
understandable and matches the intended reading level, and review the rewritten documents for
biases and inaccuracies.
○ Don’t include sensitive or confidential information in the prompt.
● Condense longer documents and summarize text
○ Do read the entire document independently and review the summary for biases and inaccuracies.
○ Don’t include sensitive or confidential information in the prompt.
● Draft documents
○ Do edit and review the document, label the content appropriately (see “disclosure and attribution”
above), and remember that you and Eastern Washington University are responsible and accountable
for the impact and consequences of the generated content.
○ Don’t include sensitive or confidential information in the prompt or use generative AI to draft
communication materials on sensitive topics that require a human touch.
● Coding
○ Do understand what the code is doing before deploying it in any environment, understand the use of
libraries and dependencies, and develop familiarity with vulnerabilities and other security
considerations associated with the code.
○ Don’t include sensitive or confidential information (including passwords, keys, proprietary
information, etc.) in the prompt and code.
● Aid in generating image, audio, and video content for more effective communication.
○ Do review generated content for biases and inaccuracies.
○ Don’t include sensitive or confidential information in the prompt.
● Automate responses to frequently asked questions from students (e.g., in Admissions and Enrollment
chatbots)
○ Do protect student data.
○ Don't use generative AI as a substitute for human interaction or assume it will perfectly understand
queries. Provide mechanisms for users to easily escalate their concerns or seek human assistance if
the AI system cannot address their needs effectively.
This procedure may be revised at any time without notice. All revisions supersede prior procedures and are effective
immediately upon approval.
D. Other Information
NIST AI 100-1 Artificial Intelligence Risk Management Framework
US Copyright Office’s Notice on Artificial Intelligence and Copyright