Finlandia University official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://www.finlandia.edu/academics/campus-catalog/archived-catalogs/2017-18-catalog/course-descriptions/












Using a comparative approach students will learn about a variety of different cultures in the world and will gain basic knowledge about patterns of cultural similarities and differences. Subjects range from tribal politics and economies, to the evolution of sex, love, and marriage, the nature of religion, and the origins, development, and diversity of human cultures. Spring semester, even years.
Cross-listed with FNS 330. Europe’s only recognized indigenous people, the Sámi are an ethnic community from Northern Scandinavia related linguistically and culturally to Finns. This class will explore Sami peoples in historical, sociological, anthropological, and indigenous studies contexts. Sami traditional arts, subsistence practices, religious traditions, and political movements will receive special attention. Fall semester, odd years.

Introduces students to several art and design disciplines and examines how they are interrelated through applied work using various mediums and techniques. Fall Semesters.
Students develop their ability to draw what they see through the application of perspective, contour, and tonal study. Basic drawing techniques and the use of different materials are introduced. Fall semesters.
Digital Design investigates the role of digital media in extending the understanding of issues related to art & design literacy. Focus on advanced foundation design concepts and broad exposure to contemporary electronic tools. Spring semesters.
Introduction to ceramic design. During this class students become familiar with the design and making of ceramic products and the properties of the media. Students learn basic manufacturing methods and techniques. Fall semesters.
Introduces students to an evolving array of alternative design systems that are based on a philosophical paradigm shift toward Earth-awareness and environmental stewardship. Also contains a design studio component in which students select a specific sustainable design system and use it to address a particular design problem. Fall semesters. Online course.
Cross-listed with DRM 135. Classroom and Studio: hands-on application of the principles of modern set design and construction for the theatre. Students will learn the fundamentals of theatre design. Design process from script analysis, justification, research, incubation, and implementation. This course is designed to expand creative concepts of visual composition through interpretation and practice in the field of Theatre: scenic set design, application and construction. Other various aspects will be covered in relation to: Scene, Lighting, Sound, Costume, Property and Projection. Spring semesters.
Involves the student in an examination of the visual arts from a variety of cultures and time periods, with a focus on developing a personal aesthetic vocabulary. By looking at painting, sculpture, photography, film, music, fashion, and design, We will explore the visual elements to enhance the student’s conception of the power and purpose of art. Spring semesters.
Exploration of the basic elements and principles of two-dimensional design and its applications. Dot, line, shape, field, texture, brightness, and color are introduced as basic and interrelated components in solving design problems. Color theories including the physics and psychophysics of color, and cultural and aesthetic considerations are discovered. Projects encourage students to express ideas in a visual context, while exploring the interaction of ideas and principles. Fall semesters.
Students discover fiber structure through sampling construction methods, including twining, coiling, knitting, crocheting, knotting, and weaving. Emphasis on loom preparation, drafting graphics, basic structures. Includes research and analysis of historic and contemporary examples. Students use these techniques to create art objects, one-of-a-kind garments, or design prototypes for multiples. Fall semesters.
Covers digital photography as it applies to publication, artistic expression and advertising. Use of a digital camera to illustrate communication concepts, explore aesthetic endeavors and produce images that convey personal vision. Focus on developing visual solutions that explore the control of composition, lighting, subject selection, photo illustration and communication. Adobe Photoshop will take the place of a traditional darkroom for processing images, making adjustments and outputting images to the printer. Fall semesters.
Though necessary for survival, left-brain focus too often undermines right-brain spontaneous creativity, generative lateral thinking, and intuitive response. We will expose blocks to creativity, demystify inspired innovation and identify strategies to aid in unlearning pattern thinking in order to access one’s unique creative response to any and all challenges in art, in design, in life. Pass/Fail only. Fall semesters.
A thorough introduction to contemporary graphic design studio practices, emphasizes the development of creative and analytical skill sets utilized to solve complex visual problems involving image-making, storytelling and design matrices. Fall semesters. Prerequisite: ARD 114.
Students continue to develop their ability to draw what they see through the application of perspective, contour, and tonal study. Students will develop a greater understanding of anatomy and skeletal structure through applied study of the figure. Sequencing, time and narrative will be addressed. Various drawing techniques and the use of different materials will be studied. Spring Semesters. Prerequisite: ARD 101 and ARD 173.
Students develop greater knowledge and skills required in professional ceramic design work, such as making prototypes, manufacturing limited series, and designing and making one-of-a-kind pieces. Molds and casting techniques for ceramic production are also explored. Spring semesters.
The course covers the application of design elements to textiles. Through dyeing, printing, and surface embellishment methods, students create original yardage for home, garment and fine art. Motif development, color theory, textile history, and individual expression are emphasized. Spring semesters. Prerequisites: ARD 101 and ARD 173.
The first full studio for Integrated Design. The studio uses design projects as a vehicle to learn and apply design systems and methodologies to creative problem solving. Students learn to define projects, perform research, and generate diverse concept responses. Fall semesters.
An exploration and development of the graphic design portfolio with an emphasis on font development. Coursework includes advanced level assignments with emphasis on developing elevated professional skills. Spring semesters. Prerequisite: ARD 214.
Students learn three-dimensional drafting as applied to product development and the production process. Beyond learning the basics of surface modeling and rendering, students will be challenged to use the software as a tool in their chosen field. Spring semesters, odd years. Prerequisite: ARD 114.
An introduction to garment design that includes both flat-pattern drafting and draping methods. Students develop designs through sketch ideating. Understanding of fabric structure and fiber content inform the process and results. Students machine and hand-sew their final designs. Participation in a student fashion show is part of the class. Spring semesters.
Students gain ‘hands-on’ experience with a wide range of materials, discover inherent characteristics of materials, and learn the processes used to produce and form them. New materials generated in response to concerns about conservation, renewable and reusable resources, recyclability, product life cycle analysis, and associated environmental impacts are explored. Spring semesters. *One cross- concentration Technical Aspect course may be substituted.
Introduction to the use of paint as a medium to explore the fundamentals of pictorial organization and construction, introduction is given in the use of materials. This course will begin to explore the materials and techniques of painting with acrylic, oil and watercolor. Material discussed and demonstrated will include application techniques, color mixing, creative visual problems solving, and the rendering of form and volume. Includes Studio Fall semesters. Prerequisite: ARD 101 and ARD 173.
Introduces the elements and principles of three-dimensional design through form development. Students discover materials and processes while developing an awareness of surface. Individual expression through unique objects and the production of multiples is encouraged. Spring semesters.
Professional drawing is used to describe proposed but as yet non-existing design concepts. Students are instructed in the various languages of professional drawing for communication with other professionals as well as clients. A hands-on overview of orthographic projection, axonometric projection, perspective drawing construction and free-hand perspective sketching is followed by one-on-one exploration of discipline-specific modes of professional drawing that focus on individual portfolio development in preparation for professional practice. Fall semesters. Prerequisite: ARD 101.
Continuing the formal focus of foundational courses, students pursue familiarity with drawing and painting medias. In addition, students are exposed to historical precedence and the contemporary landscape of studio practices. Research will be employed to understand where studio output aligns. Spring Semesters. Prerequisite: ARD 273.
Good design requires competent design research. Knowing how to ask the right questions precedes looking for answers. In an age of too much information a good designer seeks quality research information to integrate human behavior with ecological preservation. Spring semesters.
Theory and practice related to the understanding of how symbolism and semiotics function in graphic design. Includes a broad overview of graphic design history and an understanding of how graphic design functions in the third dimension. (Packaging, environmental, architectural and signage touch points). Includes Studio. Spring semesters. Prerequisite: ARD 214
Project management skills and how to apply design thinking and the design process in the management of an art and design project. Project scope and objective, time management, and professional communication. Students choose an entrepreneurial project and learn about opportunity recognition, market analysis, and how to develop a business idea through the basics of a business plan. Includes Studio. Fall semesters.
Concentrated creative investigation of emergent digital delivery formats and frameworks (web, mobile). Way-finding, navigation, interface, and information architecture methodologies emphasized. Fall semesters. Prerequisite: ARD 314
The second full design studio for the Sustainable Design, Product Design, and Interior Design concentrations. A continuation of creative problem solving using design projects as a vehicle to learn and apply design systems and methodologies. Students in Design Studio II aim for improved level of research, conceptualization, and ‘real-world’ response. Fall semesters.
An exploration of revolving themes and topics directly affecting the field of studio arts. [e.g. “Painting and New Contexts”, “Experimental Techniques in Illustration”, “Appropriation/Collage/&Copyright”]. The course content will reflect the strengths of the instructor, combined with the interests of the students. Fall Semesters. Prerequisite: ARD 280.
Builds on knowledge of woven structure and surface design principles teaching students to create patterns and weaves for jacquard upholstery. Through the use of professional software, students’ designs are woven as samples in a textile mill. Students use drawing, color theory, basic math, and organizational skills to complete design projects for industry. Spring semesters. Prerequisites: ARD 205 and ARD 225.
Students study the chemistry and physics of the raw materials used in ceramic products, and the behavior of the materials during the different stages of production. The students become familiar with the different types and compositions of clay bodies, ceramic kilns, and equipment operating principles. Fall semesters. Prerequisites:  ARD 124 or ARD 224.
Students research the technical aspects of alternative materials developed in response to issues regarding conservation, renewable and reusable resources, and recyclability. Students gain a pragmatic understanding of these new materials and how they can be used to the benefit of society and the environment. Spring semesters. *One cross-concentration Technical Aspects course may be substituted.
Students study the interface between humans and the built environment. Course work includes the study of anthropometrics, ergonomics, proxemics, human sensory, and psychological response in relation to human-made objects and environments. Also explored are ADA specifications and regulations, and the principles of universal design and sustainable design. Fall semesters.
Students will adopt and investigate a personal theme and aesthetic. Resulting studio work will be compiled into a compendium for distribution. Discourse surrounding self-publishing will be addressed, including on-line distribution and physical printing. Students will explore self-promotion and marketing strategies specific to projects’ demographic. Fall Semesters. Prerequisites: ARD 101 and ARD 114
Deepens the skills learned in ARD 329. Emphasis on individual professional development and the production of a product, set of products, or piece(s) of art. Instructors approve the project topics. Students prepare a report of the project and complete a project portfolio using advanced presentation techniques. Students are encouraged to select a challenging and inspiring topic that generates individual expertise and lays the groundwork for subsequent professional projects. Spring semesters. Prerequisite: ARD 329.
Senior-level discussion about the place of art and criticism in contemporary global culture. It explores questions such as: What are artists and critics doing and saying now? What kinds of new media and venues are being developed? What is the place of art criticism in the 21st century? The course explores the responsibility of artists and critics (if any) to society, themselves, the environment, and the ecology of the planet. Spring semesters. Prerequisite: HIS 303.
Advanced graphic design theory and application exploring formal and informal structures, with an analysis of contemporary and historic precedents. Includes Studio. Fall semesters. Prerequisite: ARD 234.
Advanced problem solving related to the process of creating ceramics. The aesthetics of clay as an expressive medium are explored. Spring semesters. Prerequisites: ARD 360.
Students will continue study of design and fiber structure in weaving, knitting and other systems and combined processes. Includes Studio. Fall semesters. Prerequisites: ARD 205 and 225.
An extensive overview of interactive tools, principles and concepts in screenbased delivery mechanisms. The student designer will explore and construct innovative frameworks of interaction using coding and industry standard electronic applications. Fall semesters. Prerequisite: ARD 334.
The third and final project-based studio course in the Integrated (Product/Interior/Sustainable) Design Studio sequence. For fourth year designers, the course is conducted in a professional studio atmosphere employing design methodologies and applying creative problem-solving in specific projects. This includes the composition of concise project definitions, engagement in project-specific research, generation of 2-D and 3-D concept sketches, development and evaluation of concepts, selection of appropriate materials and processes, and the generation of complete project presentations. Fall semesters.
Continuation of Studio Practices in Ceramics I. Students will explore their own path through the ceramic medium with faculty advising. Aesthetics of form and color as well as the role of ceramic art in the 21st century will be explored. Spring semesters. Prerequisites: ARD 424.
A continuation of ARD 360, students will focus on glaze calculation from scratch, as well as develop a deeper understanding of clay bodies and firing temperature. The investigation will be directed toward the student’s individual studio practice and will involve chemistry and mathematics as a related to ceramics. Includes Studio. Fall semesters. Prerequisite: ARD 360.
Students continue study of design and fiber structure in weaving and other structures, garment and surface design. Individual projects emphasize the technical aspects taking full advantage of the studio facilities. Spring semesters. Prerequisite: ARD 261.
Professional practices in design development, studio practices and presentation for entrepreneurial artists, small businesses, and industry are emphasized. The semester will focus on the advanced development of the student’s individual area of focus in fiber design leading to Diploma Works. Includes Studio. Fall semesters. Prerequisite: ARD 425.
A final preparation for entrance into the illustration marketplace. There will be strong emphasis on technique, design, presentation, and professionalism. Business aspects, self-promotion, and portfolio presentations will be addressed. This is a labor intensive studio experience, individually catered to each student’s needs and sensibilities. Fall Semesters. Prerequisite: ARD 380
This seminar prepares students for ARD 499 Diploma Works. The student is introduced to the approaches, basic standards, and required guidelines for ARD 499 Diploma Works. Students plan their diploma works project and present it for approval. Fall semesters. Prerequisite: Senior status. Requirement: Student must enroll in ARD 499 the following spring semester.
Art & Design Internship students are required to participate in a one-semester internship with a professional design firm or company. Students may also elect to study abroad in lieu of professional practice. Fall and spring semesters.
Intensive class in which the student researches, develops, and completes a final diploma works project with the supervision of faculty. Topics and requirements vary according to the student’s focus. A paper and support materials that document the development of the work are required. Spring semesters. Prerequisites: ARD 497.

Introduces students to the biology major, including its scope, curriculum, and career possibilities.  Activities and discussions explore program completion, career options and preparation, medical or graduate school preparation, and developing professionalism. Fall semesters. Pass/fail only.
Focuses on concepts of modern biology. Topics include diversity of organisms, characteristics of life, cell structure and function, photosynthesis and respiration, cell reproduction, patterns of inheritance, DNA and gene expression, and exploration of the scientific method. Includes laboratory. Fall and spring semesters.
Uses an evolutionary approach to explore the classification, structure, and function of living organisms. Topics include evolutionary mechanisms of inheritance, diversity of living organisms, and the morphology and physiology of plants and animals. Includes laboratory and field work. Fall semesters.
Provides a systematic review of the anatomy and physiology of the human body. Topics include basic biochemistry, cells, tissues, and body systems such as integumentary, skeletal, muscular, and nervous. Includes laboratory. Fall semesters. Prerequisite: BIO 111 or instructor permission.
Continuation of BIO 171. Body systems studied include endocrine, cardiovascular, lymphatic, respiratory, digestive, renal, and reproductive. Includes laboratory. Spring semesters. Prerequisite: BIO 171.
Compares the anatomical designs of vertebrates as functional adaptations and products of an evolutionary legacy. Includes laboratory. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: BIO 113.
Compares the physiological mechanisms of animal systems as functional adaptations. Biological processes include respiration, circulation, digestion and metabolism, thermoregulation, osmoregulation and renal physiology, neural and hormonal regulation, sensation, and mobility. Includes laboratory. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: BIO 113.
Introduction to the microscopic world of bacteria, prokaryotes, fungi, and viruses.  Topics include microorganism structure, metabolism, growth, control, phylogeny, ecology, interactions with humans, and epidemiology.  Laboratory will introduce basic microbiological techniques.  Includes laboratory. Spring semesters. Prerequisite: BIO 113 or BIO 172.
Outlines the theoretical and empirical aspects of ecology starting with the nature and history of the discipline. Topics include the elements of populations, biotic interactions, communities, and ecosystems. Includes laboratory. Fall semester, odd years. Prerequisite: BIO 113 or instructor permission.
Investigates modern principles of genetics. Topics include modes of inheritance, chromosomal inheritance, gene expression and regulation, genetic mutations and recombination, molecular techniques, genomics, transposons, epigenetics, and quantitative inheritance. Includes laboratory. Fall semester, even years. Prerequisite: BIO 111.
Investigates the structures and processes of the cell. Topics include organelle structure and function, membrane structure and transport, bioenergetics and enzymes, photosynthesis and respiration, cell reproduction and gene expression, the endomembrane system, the cytoskeleton and cell motility, cellular junctions and extracellular structures, and cell communication. Spring semester, odd years. Prerequisite: BIO 111.
Opportunity to explore aspects of the field of biology not dealt with extensively in other Biology courses. Topics may include Molecular Biology, Developmental Biology, Limnology, Animal Behavior, and Conservation Biology. Offered as needed. Prerequisites: Junior standing and instructor permission.
Examination of primary texts focusing on methodology and applications of biology. Spring semester, odd years; or as needed. Prerequisite: Junior standing.
This experiential learning opportunity focuses on exploring career interests, applying knowledge from the classroom, and developing practical on-the-job skills. Students are responsible for establishing their own internships. The internship may be taken for one, two, or three credit hours, with a minimum of 20 hours of supervised on-site work per credit hour. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: Cumulative GPA of at least 2.7 and instructor permission. Pass/fail only.
Introduces the chemical metabolism of living systems. Topics include the molecular architecture of cells, metabolic regulation, chemical and physical properties of organic molecules, protein structure and stability, enzyme kinetics, and metabolic circuitry and pathways. Fall semester, odd years.  Prerequisite: CHM 215.
Evolutionary biology to include the patterns of historical evolution; evolutionary rates of morphological and physiological change and molecular diversification; genetic basis of evolutionary change; the biology of adaptations, the evolution of genome organization; evolution of reproductive isolation; and species formation. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: BIO 113.
Investigates methods for the design and implementation of observational and experimental studies. Topics include probability, sampling, experimental design, hypothesis testing, confidence interval estimation, t-test, ANOVA, regression, categorical data analysis, and nonparametric statistics. Emphasis will also be placed on the biological interpretation of statistical results. Spring semester, even years. Prerequisite: MAT 140, 145, or higher.
Examination of primary texts focusing on methodology and applications of biology. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: Senior standing.
Prepares students for BIO 499 Senior Capstone. Students will be introduced to the requirements of the capstone experience, determine their topic, and develop a prospectus. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: Senior standing and instructor permission. Pass/fail only.
Students prepare a research thesis on a topic of interest to the student. The thesis is intended to demonstrate the student’s ability to synthesize and apply knowledge. Offered as needed. Prerequisites: Senior status and instructor permission. Pass/fail only.

Introduces students to aspects of business within the art industry and prepares them to develop a professional artist’s statement, résumé, and portfolio. Students will develop a conversational knowledge of galleries and artist opportunities such as commissions, grants, and residencies. Presentations, critiques, criticism, and rejection will also be covered. Fall semesters.
Provides an overview of business from the student perspective. Students will learn about the continuously changing business world and the important knowledge and skill sets needed to be successful in today’s globalized business world. Other topics include entrepreneurship and starting a new business, leadership and ethics. The course will emphasize student-centered learning and interaction with business experts and professionals. Fall semesters; spring semesters as needed.
Provides an introduction to the theory and practice of communication in business, emphasizing planning and writing or presenting business letters, memos, and reports, and includes a review of basic writing principles. Pre-requisite ENG 103.
Provides a basic knowledge of accounting to make sound financial decisions. Covers generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), businesses’ four basic financial statements, business organizations, basic financial ratios, budgeting, audits and auditors, and fraud and ethics. This course is required for Marketing and Graphic Design and 2+2 majors and is also intended for non-business majors seeking a basic background in accounting fundamentals. Fall semesters. Prerequisite: MAT 140 or MAT144. May be taken concurrently with this prerequisite.
Covers the basic concepts, principles, and procedures of accounting. Major topics include the accounting cycle, financial statement preparation, and revenue recognition. Fall semesters. Prerequisite: MAT 140 or MAT 144. May be taken concurrently with this prerequisite.
Focuses on the role of accounting information within a company. Major topics Include budgeting, responsibility accounting, cost allocations, cost behavior, decision models, capital budgeting, and product costing. Spring semesters. Prerequisite: BUS 201.
Uses a common accounting software package to introduce computerized accounting applications. Spring semesters.
Covers business-related computing skills, including advanced features of Excel, webpage design, and social media. Assumes prior knowledge of Microsoft Office software. Fall and spring semesters.
Introduces students to leadership styles and traits and provides self-assessment activities for them to learn more about their leadership abilities. Provides students with readings and activities to engage them in the leadership process as well as foster teams that work together on a class project. Fall and spring semesters. Prerequisite: Sophomore standing.
Covers marketing principles, including classification of goods, retailing, wholesaling, physical distribution, personal selling, advertising, pricing, market forecasting and research, and the economic and legal environment in which a business enterprise functions. The emphasis is on small businesses. Fall semesters. Prerequisite: Sophomore standing.
Examines the history, evolution and function of management in the 21st century. Examines classical theory through postmodern theory in case studies. Students learn how management goals and strategies are set, attained and maintained using best practices. Covers topics such as business law, human resource management, and production management. Fall and spring semesters. Prerequisite: Sophomore standing.
Studies in depth the accounting cycle and the accepted standards that govern financial reporting. Topics include current assets, long-lived assets, and intangibles. Fall semesters. Prerequisite: BUS 202.
An in-depth study of the accounting cycle and the accepted standards that govern financial reporting. Topics include current assets, long-lived assets, and intangibles. Spring semesters. Prerequisite: BUS 301.
Empowers students to work and communicate effectively in the cross-cultural business environment. Focuses on developing cross-cultural awareness, knowledge and skills needed to operate effectively in domestic and international cross-cultural environments. Fall semesters. Prerequisite: Junior standing or permission of instructor.
Studies how managers use accounting information to plan production and control the costs of a manufacturing operation. Topics include cost systems, cost elements, budgeting, profit planning, responsibility accounting, and standard cost. Fall semesters. Prerequisite: BUS 202.
Essentials of Taxation: Individuals and Business Entities, 2017 Edition emphasizes tax planning and the multidisciplinary aspects of taxation.  This text is designed with the AICPA Model Tax Curriculum in mind, presenting the introductory Federal taxation course from a business entity perspective. Fall semesters, even years. Prerequisite: BUS 202.
Prepares students to develop and run a business. Students will demonstrate a conversational knowledge of the development and implementation of a business plan, as well as basic art business practices and terminology as they apply to new or existing small-scale business ventures. Fall semesters. Prerequisite: BUS 125.
Presents the basic principles of the acquisition, financing and management of assets, building on the foundation of time value of money and valuation of securities, and introduces the techniques of capital budgeting and the cost of capital. Fall semesters. Prerequisite: BUS 201.
Explores e-marketing from a marketing perspective, the Internet’s impact on business, the principles and concepts of doing business on the Web, new media-focused marketing, operational transformation, formation of electronic markets, and the digital economy. Fall semesters. Prerequisite: BUS 245.
This course prepares students to develop a marketing, advertising strategy for their business endeavors or for a small business where they may work. Practical techniques, as opposed to theory, will be presented and discussed.  Spring semesters. Prerequisite: BUS 245.
Covers the evolution of personal selling, an important part of marketing; studies the interpersonal interactions between buyers and sellers to initiate, develop and enhance customer relationships. Fall semesters. Prerequisite: BUS 245.
Investigates aspects of business not covered or only lightly touched on in other business courses. Topics vary depending upon the instructor. Offered as needed.
Applies the principles of promotion and marketing for college and high school athletics, professional sports, corporate fitness clubs, and resorts. Spring semesters. Prerequisite: Junior standing
Studies theory and applications of fundamental business practices as applied to sport management. Topics covered include revenue sources, budget development, ownership, taxation, financial analysis and economic impact studies. Emphasizes ticket, group, sponsorship, food service, and broadcast sales as well as fundraising development. Fall semesters Prerequisite: Junior standing
Examines legal terminology, contracts, agencies, partnerships, corporations, property, negotiable instruments, sales, court proceedings, federal laws, and business ethics from the perspective of their relevance and importance in today’s organizations. Students participate in activities that teach them how to manage a business legally with high ethical and moral standards. Spring semesters. Prerequisite: Sophomore standing.
Analyzes effective management strategies and the knowledge associated with pursuing a career in sports management. Emphasizes fundamental sports management principles and skills and information on current issues. Introduces students to sports management career opportunities and sports principles as they relate to leadership style, communication, and motivation. Spring semesters. Prerequisite: BUS 271.
Explores effective human resource management in the dynamic legal, social, and economic environments of public and private organizations. Topics include federal statutes that influence the recruitment, selection, training, and development of organizational members. Students study various performance appraisal systems and examine changing benefits and compensation packages. Fall semesters. Prerequisite: BUS 271.
An experiential entrepreneurship course, engaging students in real-world practical business know how at the Jutila Center’s FUEL (Finlandia University Experiential Learning) Studio and Gift Shop. Fall and spring semesters.  Prerequisite: BUS 384 or BUS 385.
An experiential entrepreneurship course, engaging students in real-world practical business know how at the Jutila Center’s FUEL (Finlandia University Experiential Learning) Studio and Gift Shop. Fall and spring semesters.  Prerequisite:  Sophomore standing.
An interdisciplinary study of the variables that affect both the formal and the informal culture within an organization. These include employee motivation, team dynamics, and work performance. Examines leadership from the perspective of how it shapes and sustains the organization’s customs and mores. Spring semesters. Prerequisite: BUS 271.
Studies the challenges and opportunities of international business from the viewpoint of the small entrepreneurial venture. Topics include understanding the level of readiness to internationalize, finding and analyzing markets, methods of entry, finding international distributors and partners, exporting and importing, marketing mix decisions, legal aspects, understanding cultural differences, available assistance, and managing international operations. Spring semesters. Prerequisite: BUS 271 or instructor permission.
Examines the fundamentals of project management including organizing, planning, and controlling projects. Covers concepts such as developing project proposals, project scheduling, managing costs and risk, team management, and communication and documentation issues. Utilizing Microsoft Project, students will plan, schedule and manage a project over the length of the course. Fall semesters. Prerequisites: BUS 271 and BUS 222.
Examines the specialized issues, problems, practices, and skills required when accounting for business combinations, including preparation of consolidated financial statements for organizations that are wholly- and/or partially-owned subsidiary operations, transactions associated with international operations, and partnership accounting. Fall semester, even years. Prerequisite: BUS 302.
Provides students with a thorough understanding of the design of information systems that support the accounting function of a firm. Topics include business transaction cycles and processes, accounting system technology, and management of accounting systems. Spring semesters. Prerequisite: BUS 202.
Studies the attest functions of public accounting. Topics include professional ethics, generally accepted auditing standards, internal control, and the design of audit programs. Spring semester, odd years. Prerequisite: BUS 302.
Provides a thorough analysis of the entrepreneurial process and the key considerations an entrepreneur must make to increase the likelihood of the venture being successful. These include having a feasible business idea, developing an effective business model, as well as managerial, financial, funding, legal, and ethical issues. Spring semesters. Prerequisite: BUS 271 and Junior standing.
The course will depict a broader understanding of buyer behavior which incorporates both consumer and organizational buying. It will help students comprehend the buying process in business and industrial markets, and will consequently include concepts examining the behavior of external marketplace influences on buyer behavior. The principles are expandable to both consumer and business-to-business environments.  Fall semester, odd years. Prerequisite: BUS 245
Incorporates current theory and practice relating to starting, managing, and marketing small firms; provides comprehensive coverage of critical small business issues, using real-world examples to help students understand how to apply business concepts for small companies; incorporates material to help students explore small business issues with respect to marketing, financial management, and human resource management. Spring semesters. Prerequisite: BUS 245.
Studies the development and implementation of a marketing strategy in a global setting. Topics include how to devise a mission, utilize limited resources, and design and measure the effectiveness of an international marketing plan. Fall semesters. Prerequisite: BUS 245.
Introduces the management of amateur athletics, including review of the organizational structures of intercollegiate athletic departments, conferences, and the NCAA. Analyzes, in light of an expanding global sport industry, the organization and management of international sport, including the European “Club” structure and Olympic movements. Spring semesters. Prerequisite: Junior standing
Offers an overview of the operation, management, and financing of public and private assembly facilities, including arenas, coliseums, and stadiums and the elements of managing sport games and events. Fall semesters. Prerequisite: Junior standing
Introduces applied research methods to guide managerial decision-making in a real world practice. Topics include using quantitative and qualitative research methods by collecting data through surveys, questionnaires, observations, artifacts, focus groups, and desktop research. Fall semesters. Prerequisite: MAT 144 or MAT 145 and junior standing
An experiential entrepreneurship course, engaging students in real-world practical business know how at the Jutila Center’s FUEL (Finlandia University Experiential Learning) Studio and Gift Shop. Fall and spring semesters.  Prerequisite: BUS 384 or BUS 385.
An experiential entrepreneurship course, engaging students in real-world practical business know how at the Jutila Center’s FUEL (Finlandia University Experiential Learning) Studio and Gift Shop. Fall and spring semesters.  Prerequisite: BUS 384 or BUS 385.
Through lectures, in-class discussion, case studies, assignments and a course project, students will develop an understanding of the strategic planning process and the important role that strategy plays in an organization’s success. Students will develop a “strategic mindset” and become familiar with useful strategic planning tools and theories that will enable them to understand strategic implications of decisions made at all levels in an organization. Fall semesters. Prerequisites: BUS 271 and BUS 245.
Students or student teams work on projects related to material in BUS 488. They prepare papers and presentations based upon their project experiences that demonstrate their capacities to synthesize and apply knowledge from an organizational perspective. Spring semesters. Prerequisite: BUS 488.
Graduating seniors will be assessed on core business and university-wide learning outcomes through an assessment exam of core topics. This will be followed by a focus on the strategic management and the strategic planning process. The remainder of the course will prepare the student for life after graduation by including presentations and discussions with experts on topics such as career planning, networking, business etiquette, volunteering and community service. Spring semester. Pre-requisite: student should be graduating in the spring semester that the course is offered or the following fall semester.
Students work for individual employers in job activities that meet the objectives of the International School of Business, the employer, and the student. A learning agreement is developed between the student and a faculty mentor, who then ensures that the student’s knowledge is applied and utilized in the work setting. Fall and spring semesters. Prerequisite: Junior or senior standing.
Students demonstrate their capacity to synthesize and apply knowledge from an organizational perspective by producing a comprehensive and integrated research paper and presentation focusing on a topic of interest to the student. Offered as needed. Prerequisites: Cumulative GPA of 2.75, senior standing and instructor permission.

Designed for science and pre- professional health majors. Topics include measurement, atomic theory and structure, electronic configuration, stoichiometry, chemical bonding, thermo- chemistry, states of matter, aqueous solutions and some descriptive chemistry. Includes laboratory. Fall semester. Prerequisite: MAT 140, or concurrent enrollment.
Designed for science and pre-professional health majors. Topics include kinetics, equilibrium, thermodynamics, acids and bases, ionic equilibria, electrochemistry, nuclear chemistry, and some descriptive chemistry. Includes laboratory. Spring semester. Prerequisite: CHM 115.
Introduces basic chemistry principles such as elements, compounds and mixtures, atomic structures and periodic properties, chemical bonding, aqueous solutions, acids and bases, and energy relationships. Discusses chemistry in the context of significant societal issues, such as clean air and water, global climate change, acid rain, ozone depletion, and biotechnology. Includes laboratory. Offered as needed.
Covers basics of chemistry concepts, including elements, compounds, atoms, chemical bonding, the periodic table, acid-base and oxidation-reduction reactions, and basic inorganic and organic chemistry. These chemistry topics are studied in the context of artists’ materials: paints and dyes, paper, fibers and plastics, metals and alloys, ceramics and glass. Light and color of materials are examined. Includes laboratory. Spring semester, odd years. Art and Design students only or instructor permission.
Chemistry, physics, and biology play a central role in forensic science, which is based on detailed observation of crime scenes, as well as careful measurement and analysis of evidence. The scope of this course includes discovery at a crime scene, physical evidence; and analytical techniques for organic and inorganic materials. We will explore concepts related to physical and chemical evidence collection and processing, the chemistry of drugs and poisons, microscopic examination of evidence, biochemistry and DNA analysis, processing and evaluation of various impressions (e.g., shoe prints, fabric properties, and bloodstains), among other topics. Includes laboratory. Spring semesters, even years.
Focuses on the chemical basis of biological processes. Surveys general, organic, and biochemistry. Specific topics include atomic and molecular structure, chemical change, organic compounds, proteins, carbohydrates, lipids, metabolism, and hormones. Fall semesters. Prerequisites: Two years of high school science, BIO 111, or instructor permission.
Introduces the theories, principles, and techniques of organic chemistry.  Topics include the structure, properties, and nomenclature of alkenes, alkynes, alcohols, ethers epoxides, amines, sulfur containing compounds and alkyl halides, and their reaction mechanisms including synthesis, decomposition, substitution, and elimination. Further topics include isomerization, stereochemistry, and spectroscopy. Includes laboratory. Fall semester, even years. Prerequisite: CHM 116.
Continuation of Organic Chemistry I. Topics include the structure, properties, and nomenclature of carboxylic acids, aldehydes, ketones, benzene and substituted benzenes.  Introduces modern analytical techniques including mass spectrometry, infrared spectroscopy, UV/vis Spectroscopy, and NMR spectroscopy.  Includes laboratory. Spring semester, odd years. Prerequisite: CHM 215.

Provides an overview of how computers work, computer terminology and concepts, and the use of a computer as a tool in various disciplines and extensive coverage of the use of Microsoft Office® software for problem solving and decision-making, including Word, Excel, Access, and PowerPoint. Students create documents, worksheets, databases, and presentations suitable for coursework, professional purposes, and personal use. Also included is information about Microsoft Office® Outlook, communications and scheduling software, creating Web pages, and the integration of software applications with the World Wide Web. Fall and spring semesters.

This course provides an introduction to the study of mass communication, including an historical overview of the development of media technologies, industries, and theories. Students will learn to critically analyze media texts and understand the political, social, and cultural impact of the mass media in the United States. Fall semesters.
To what extent can media messages affect our attitudes, emotions, and behavior? This course provides students with a background in historical and contemporary approaches to the study of media effects and introduces key theories that have been derived from and/or driven this research. Spring semesters. Prerequisite: COM 101 or instructor permission.
Preparation and delivery of informative and persuasive speeches in the classroom and beyond. Basic rhetorical principles to enrich understanding, analysis of professional speeches to inform, speaking and listening competencies, and the practice of sound ethics. Fall and spring semesters.
In this survey, we will interrogate the social, cultural, and political ramifications of new media and digital technologies, including social media, mobile communication, and video games. We will also consider how these technologies shape issues such as identity formation, privacy and surveillance, and public discourse. Spring semester, even years.
This course provides an overview of media history, paying particular attention to the emergence of new technologies. In this survey, we will interrogate the social, cultural, and political ramifications of communication technologies and identify the values and themes that have shaped our understanding of the relationships among media, technology, and culture from the 18th century to the present. Fall semester, even years.  Prerequisite: COM 101 or instructor permission.
This course will examine the media’s role in the social construction of gender and draw on a wide range of thought from disciplines including cultural studies, queer theory, film theory, gender studies, and feminist media studies. We will explore theories and representations of binary gender (masculinity and femininity) as well as non-binary identities. Although gender will be our primary focus, we will also discuss its intersections with race, class, and sexuality.  Fall semester, even years.
Provides an opportunity to gain an introductory level of understanding of major fields within communication. Topics may include Interpersonal Communication and Internet Journalism. Spring semester, odd years.
This course will examine fan cultures, practices, and communities, paying particular attention to how ideas of fandom have changed over time and how they may be linked to other facets of identity, such as gender, class, or ethnicity. We will survey work from the interdisciplinary field of fan studies, explore the relationships between media technologies and fan cultures, and discuss fans as both consumers and producers of culture. Fall semester, odd years. Prerequisite: COM 101 or instructor permission.
Provides students an opportunity for in-depth exploration of an aspect of the field of communication not dealt with extensively in other communication courses. Spring semester, even years. Prerequisite: COM 101.
In this course, students will learn and apply qualitative methods (e.g., archival research, textual analysis, in-depth interviewing) to the study of media texts and audiences. Students will learn to craft research questions and gain experience collecting, analyzing, and reporting data by designing and implementing a research project on a media phenomenon of their choosing. Fall semester, odd years. Prerequisite: COM 102.
This course will provide students with an overview of the cultural history of television and the analytical tools and theoretical perspectives necessary for the critical evaluation of television texts. Focusing on an American context, we will examine the development of television technologies, changes in industrial practices and regulation, and representations of race, gender, class, and sexuality. Fall semester, odd years. Prerequisite: COM 101 or instructor permission.
This course will interrogate the idea that “the experience of pop music is an experience of identity.” In addition to introducing students to the field of popular music studies, this course will examine the relationships among the music industry, performers, fans, and cultural values from the 20th century to the present. Spring semester, odd years. Prerequisite: COM 101 or instructor permission.
This course provides an overview of the development of communication, media, and cultural studies theory in North America and Western Europe. We will examine key thinkers and concepts and explore how the historical and sociocultural contexts of scholars influenced their thinking about media texts, industries, and audiences. Spring semester, odd years. Prerequisite: COM 102.
This experiential learning opportunity focuses on exploring career interests, applying knowledge from the classroom, and developing practical on-the-job skills. Students are responsible for establishing their own internships. The internship may be taken for one, two, or three credit hours, with a minimum of 20 hours of supervised on-site work per credit hour. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: Cumulative GPA of at least 2.7 and instructor permission. Pass/fail only.
Prepares students for COM 499 Senior Capstone. Students will be introduced to the requirements of the capstone experience, determine their topic, and develop a prospectus. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: Senior standing and instructor permission. Pass/fail only.
Students prepare a research thesis on a topic of interest to the student. The thesis is intended to demonstrate the student’s ability to synthesize and apply knowledge. Offered as needed. Prerequisites: Senior status and instructor permission. Pass/fail only.

Application of digital technologies, including computers, digital video and cameras, courseware and software, website development, blogging, podcasting, and others. Internet safety, intellectual property rights, and ethical issues associated with Internet use are examined. Students develop a multimedia project incorporating four of the digital technologies learned in the course. Fall and spring semesters.

Covers the traditional components of the criminal justice system including police, courts, and corrections, along with general influences of community, family, legislation, and victims’ rights groups on the criminal justice system. Fall semesters.
The roles and responsibilities of the police officer during the activity of patrol. Discussion of the types of patrols, and the role of an officer in traffic stops, prowler calls, felonies in progress, suicide, hostage calls, and group disturbances. Spring semesters.
The elements, purposes, and functions of criminal law. Also covers sources of criminal law, contempt and conspiracy, criminal responsibility, defenses to crime, laws of arrest, search and seizure, and other laws. Actual cases are studied. Fall semesters. Prerequisite: CRJ 101 or instructor permission.
Examines the current issues with mass incarceration, prison environment and prison privatization. The course will also address current theoretical and applied practices within prisons (including but not limited to different incarceration levels), community corrections and community re-integration after incarceration. Spring semesters.
Provides the opportunity to gain an introductory level of understanding of major fields within criminal justice. Topics may include private security, emergency management, murder in the U.S., critical issues in policing, and sex crimes. Offered as needed.
Victims are the other portion of the criminal act. Investigates the history, development of the field of victimology, and structural responses to victims. Spring semester, even years.
Community policing involves a rethinking of the role of the police and a restructuring of a police organization. Emphasizes the community/police collaboration, interpersonal skills, dealing with diversity, interacting with special needs populations, and coordinated crime prevention efforts in the community. Spring semester, odd years. Prerequisite: CRJ 202.
Focuses on corrections policy and practice in a community setting. The topics covered will be community corrections, probation, parole and the impact of current corrections policy on the community. Fall semester, even years. Prerequisite: CRJ 240.
Explores the social phenomenon of inequality in the criminal justice system. Incorporates economic, racial, ethnic and gender components and the relationship with the criminal justice system. Spring semester, even years. Prerequisite: CRJ 101.
In-depth exploration of aspects of the field of criminal justice not covered extensively in other courses. Topics may include conflict resolution, police administration, constitutional law, and women and minorities in criminal justice. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: CRJ 101 or instructor permission.
This experiential learning opportunity focuses on exploring career interests, applying knowledge from the classroom, and developing practical on-the-job skills. Students are responsible for establishing their own internships. The internship may be taken for one, two, or three credit hours, with a minimum of 20 hours of supervised on-site work per credit hour. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: Cumulative GPA of at least 2.7 and instructor permission. Pass/fail only.
Criminology and crime prevention tend to focus primarily on street crime. Investigates the theories of corporate crime, types of crime, and punishment of offenders. Fall semester, odd years. Prerequisite: CRJ 101.
Cross-listed with SOC 471. Focuses on the theoretical basis for crime policy, the empirical work utilizing theory, and the efficacy of the policies. Investigates how social policy is developed, amended and enacted. Spring semester, odd years. Prerequisites: CRJ 101 and SOC 290.
Examines the criminal justice system within a global context. Discusses theories of criminality, deviance and punishment within socio-political context of the different countries studied as well as the comparison between the countries. Within this framework, students will examine theories of crime. This course will be offered at the University of Tampere, Finland in the May term. Prerequisite: SOC 290 or concurrent registration.
Prepares students for CRJ 499 Senior Capstone. Students will be introduced to the requirements of the capstone experience, determine their topic, and develop a prospectus. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: Senior standing and instructor permission. Pass/fail only.
Students prepare a research thesis on a topic of interest to the student. The thesis is intended to demonstrate the student’s ability to synthesize and apply knowledge. Offered as needed. Prerequisites: Senior status and instructor permission. Pass/fail only.

Students participate in all phases of the production of a Finlandia University play. Class activities typically involve cooperation with children and adults in the community. Spring semesters.
Cross-listed with ARD 135. Classroom and Studio: hands-on application of the principles of modern set design and construction for the theatre. Students will learn the fundamentals of theatre design. Design process from script analysis, justification, research, incubation, and implementation. This course is designed to expand creative concepts of visual composition through interpretation and practice in the field of Theatre: scenic set design, application and construction. Other various aspects will be covered in relation to: Scene, Lighting, Sound, Costume, Property and Projection. Spring semesters.

Studies the choices that individuals, businesses, governments, and societies make when coping with scarcity. Topics include supply and demand, market structures, production and cost concepts, labor markets, and the government’s role in the economy. Fall semesters. Prerequisite: MAT 140 or above.
Begins with overview of market operations, then studies a nation’s macro-economy, including measurement of its production, price level, and employment, theories of how a macro-economy functions, government’s role in regulating a macro-economy, the banking system, monetary policy, and the Federal Reserve System. Spring semesters. Prerequisite: MAT 140 or above.
Studies gains and losses from international trade, trade barriers, and regional economic groupings, operation of foreign exchange markets, balance of payments accounts, and macroeconomic effects of international transactions. Fall semester, even years. Prerequisites: ECN 231 and ECN 232.

Designed to improve the student’s reading and writing skills. Emphasis on perfecting the paragraph and writing grammatically correct, effective sentences as preparation for the essay. Fall and spring semesters.
Designed to improve the student’s reading, writing, and critical thinking skills, and to give the student a broad understanding of culture and society. Emphasis is on essay writing and critical analysis of non-fiction and literary works. A 1-credit recitation section may be required based on placement, and it must be successfully completed (pass/fail only) in order to pass the lecture. Fall and spring semesters.
Builds on skills acquired in ENG 103. Emphasis is on writing essays and completing a research paper. Includes critical examination of fiction and non-fiction. Fall and spring semesters. Prerequisite: ENG 103 or instructor permission.
Designed to introduce students to the field of English, including its history, methods, and goals. Required course work and career possibilities for the field (including graduate school) are also discussed. Activities may include guest speakers, interviews, and site visits. Fall semesters. Pass/fail only.
This class is designed for students whose first language is not English. Critical thinking, reading, writing, and presentation skills will be emphasized. Class assignments and fieldtrips will increase students’ understanding of American culture and traditions, and American academic English. Offered as needed. For international students only.
This seminar will offer an encouraging and intellectually challenging environment. Students will be interacting with professional writers who are interested in literature and the world of ideas. A variety of writers will read from their work (published or in-progress), and discuss how it fits into the larger world of letters. Discussion may also include the writing process, literary craft, and publishing. Offered as needed.
Introduction to the writing of fiction, poetry, and the literary essay. Includes a variety of readings to support student writing. Fall semesters. Prerequisite: ENG 104 or instructor permission.
Survey of American Literature in an historical context from its beginning to 1900. Introduces the student to literary movements and major writers. Fall semester, even years. Prerequisite: ENG 103 or instructor permission.
Survey of American Literature in an historical context from 1900 to present. Introduces the student to literary movements and major writers. Spring semester, odd years. Prerequisite: ENG 103 or instructor permission.
Chronological survey of English literature from Beowulf to 1789, concentrating on major figures and works. Fall semester, odd years. Prerequisite: ENG 103 or instructor permission.
Chronological survey of English literature from 1789 to the current day, concentrating on major figures and works. Spring semester, even years. Prerequisite: ENG 103 or instructor permission.
Examine depictions of monstrosity in both classical and contemporary literature and consider what such “monstrous literature” can tell us about how we see the world and ourselves. Readings may include Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, the Call of Cthulu, I am Legend, Grendel, and No Country for Old Men. Fall semester, even years. Prerequisite: ENG 103 or instructor permission.
Survey of continental European literature from the Ancient World to the present. Introduces the student to major writers and includes historical background and literary movements. Spring semester, odd years. Prerequisite: ENG 103 or instructor permission.
Focuses on a single literary form and will explore the form of the novel through an in-depth examination. Students will become acquainted with relevant criticism, form, socio-historical contexts, and influence of the genre. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: ENG 103 or instructor permission.
Focuses on a single literary genre. A study of literature through a critical exploration of poetry will be provided. Students will become acquainted with relevant criticism, form, socio-historical contexts, and influence of the genre. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: ENG 103 or instructor permission.
This course in classical and contemporary rhetorical theory uses theories of language, representation, and communication to critique public discourse and create oral and written arguments designed for the public sphere. Spring semester, odd years. Prerequisite: ENG 104.
Evaluates films of different genres and introduces film history and the terminology of film criticism. Spring semester, even years. Prerequisite: ENG 104 or instructor permission.
Although environmental awareness and related ecological concerns are generally understood as modern phenomena, humanity has always been engaged in a struggle to understand, navigate, and even master the world around us. This course will study the ways that both contemporary and classical literature represent, interrogate, and even complicate environmental issues and themes. Fall semester, odd years.
Cross-listed with FNS 310. Surveys the literature of Finland, Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Iceland and their colonies. Examines traditional folklore and mythologies as well as modern novels, dramas and poetry. Reflects on the ways in which these various national literatures are both related and distinct, and considers what elements unite them across language and geography. Fall semester, odd years.
Covers literature of the British Commonwealth. The cultural and historical diversity as well as distinctive literary development of the British Commonwealth will be explored. Offered as needed.
Examines the rich contributions made to American literature by African American writers of fiction, nonfiction, and poetry. The historical and ongoing struggle for freedom, equality and justice in America will be a major course theme. Most readings will be from after 1950. Spring semesters, odd years. Prerequisite: ENG 104.
All good writing is rewriting. This intensive writing course seeks to hone skills while developing each student’s unique voice primarily through a workshop format. A broad range of writing styles and genres will be explored, with an emphasis on creative non-fiction. Students will create a professional portfolio and are encouraged to submit their work for publication. Fall semester, even years. Prerequisite: ENG 104; English 219 highly recommended.
Focuses on reading and discussing major American authors such as Twain, Thoreau, Cather, Fitzgerald, Faulkner, or Plath. Fall semester, odd years.
Provides an intensive study of a limited number of major authors or single novels. Fall semester, even years.
Offers the student the opportunity to explore a subgenre or theme in literature not found in the regular offerings. Topics might examine a single author such as Shakespeare, a group such as the Lost Generation, a literary time such as the Victorian, a region such as the British Commonwealth, a national literature such as Canada, a literary movement such as Modernism. Offered as needed.
Cross-listed with FNS 360. Immortalized as Finland’s national epic, the Kalevala encapsulates ancient Finnish folk traditions. This course will detail the historical development of the Kalevala poetry tradition, its development and structure as a literary work, its use as an anthropological text, and its use as a political and cultural icon of Finnish identity. Spring semester, odd years.
The intersection of literature and politics and their dynamic historical frameworks will be considered. Students will reflect on questions raised by various literary masterpieces and how literature can explore fundamental questions of human and political life. Various authors and cultural commentators will be examined. Fall semester, odd years.
To understand literature one must be able to engage with the work in a careful, active manner. Reading is a skill as much as writing, and this is the art of literary criticism. Examines the history of literary criticism from Plato to today, and considers how the act of reading shapes our understanding not only of the work we read, but of the world which produced it. Spring semester, even years. Prerequisite: Junior or senior standing.
Examines descriptions, constructions, and interrogations of gender and related issues in canonical literary works from the Classical age to the contemporary period. Fall semester, even years.
This experiential learning opportunity focuses on exploring career interests, applying knowledge from the classroom, and developing practical on-the-job skills. Students are responsible for establishing their own internships. The internship may be taken for one, two, or three credit hours, with a minimum of 20 hours of supervised on-site work per credit hour. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: Cumulative GPA of at least 2.7 and instructor permission. Pass/fail only.
Cross-listed with HUM 401. Starting with autobiography this class will use history as the touchstone for further readings in the genres of fiction, poetry, essays, drama, and film/art criticism in the area of Native Americans in literature, visual art, and film. Native American artists, ideas of identity and National identity, as well as the portrayal of Native American Peoples in the larger American popular culture will be explored. Spring semester, even years.
Designed to give a deeper and broader understanding of major conflicts around the globe, analyzing their effects on human societies and the environment through various works of fiction. Focuses on literary works written by under-represented writers, exploring territories as diverse as a war-torn neighborhood of Afghanistan, a rural village in Africa, or an Indian community in Calcutta. Texts may include historical analyses, criticism, fiction, poetry, literary journalism, and drama. Spring semester, odd years.
Prepares students for ENG 499 Senior Capstone. Students will be introduced to the requirements of the capstone experience, determine their topic, and develop a prospectus. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: Senior standing and instructor permission. Pass/fail only.
Students prepare a research thesis on a topic of interest to the student. The thesis is intended to demonstrate the student’s ability to synthesize and apply knowledge. Offered as needed. Prerequisites: Senior status and instructor permission. Pass/fail only.

Incorporates environmental science, literature, and ethics, giving students a hands-on appreciation of the human relationship with the natural world through field trips, academic study, and personal reflection. Introduces students to environmental challenges at the personal, regional, and global levels. Offered as needed.
This course examines the role of government and citizens in formulating, implementing, and enforcing environmental policy. Students investigate the formal and informal mechanisms involved in controlling pollution and protecting the environment. The pros and cons of regulatory and economic approaches to pollution control are considered. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: ENV 202.

Students read a broad range of texts, including simple stories and articles with basic vocabulary. Focus is on building vocabulary and improving students’ understanding of written English through reading, writing, and talking about various texts. Offered as needed.
Students learn to write simple sentences and paragraphs in English. Students are introduced to both formal and informal styles of writing. Offered as needed.
Designed to improve the student’s speaking skills and listening comprehension. Emphasis is on gaining confidence to speak English for a wide variety of purposes. Students go on field trips to local stores, businesses, schools, and organizations, where they learn to communicate effectively with local residents. Offered as needed.
Vocabulary and grammatical structures are taught in context, and students will apply what they learn in essays and other writing assignments. Offered as needed.
Students read a broad range of texts, from simple stories and articles with basic vocabulary to more advanced readings from newspapers and magazines. Fiction and more challenging academic texts will be gradually introduced. Emphasis is on building vocabulary and refining students’ understanding of written English through reading, writing, and talking about various texts. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: ESL Placement Assessment Test.
This class helps students write more clearly and fluently in English. Vocabulary and grammatical structures will be taught in context, and students apply what they learn in essays and other written assignments. During the second semester, more emphasis is placed on academic and business writing, with practice in summarizing, creating arguments, and documenting sources. Readings and writing assignments improve students’ understanding of American culture, history, and politics. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: ESL Placement Assessment Test.
This class is designed to improve students’ speaking skills and listening comprehension. During the second semester, emphasis is on academic listening and speaking. Students make short oral presentations and gain practice taking notes in English from lectures, video recordings, and other sources. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: ESL Placement Assessment Test.
Vocabulary and grammatical structures are taught in context, and students apply what they learn in essays and other writing assignments. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: ESL Placement Assessment Test.
Students read a broad range of texts, from stories and articles to more advanced readings from newspapers and magazines. Fiction and more challenging academic texts will be introduced. Emphasis is on building vocabulary and refining students’ understanding of written English through reading, writing, and talking about various texts. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: ESL Placement Assessment Test.
This class helps students write more clearly and fluently in English. Vocabulary and grammatical structures will be taught in context, and students apply what they learn in essays and other written assignments. Emphasis is placed on academic and business writing, with practice in summarizing, creating arguments, and documenting sources. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: ESL Placement Assessment Test.
This class is designed to improve students’ speaking skills, listening comprehension, and note-taking skills. Students make oral presentations and gain practice taking notes in English from lectures, video recordings, and other sources. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: ESL Placement Assessment Test.
More advanced grammatical structures and nuances of style are taught in this class. Students learn a range of styles appropriate to different academic subjects. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: ESL Placement Assessment Test.
Students read a broad range of texts, from stories and articles to more advances readings from newspapers and magazines. Fiction and more challenging academic texts will be emphasized. Students’ understanding of written English will be encouraged through reading, writing, and talking about various texts. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: ESL Placement Assessment Test.
This class helps prepare international students for academic writing in American Universities, with a focus on creating arguments and documenting sources. Readings and writing assignments improve students’ understanding of American culture, history, and politics. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: ESL Placement Assessment Test.
This class is a continuation of ESL 124, designed to further refine students’ speaking, listening, and note-taking skills. This class prepares students for academic work In American universities, helping international students participate in and lead class discussions. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: ESL Placement Assessment Test.
This class is designed to further refine students’ grasp of English grammar, preparing them for success in American university classrooms. Grammar is integrated into speaking, reading, and writing assignments. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: ESL Placement Assessment Test.

Explores the social, political, economic, and cultural aspects of life in Finland today. Through lecture, reading, and discussion students will discover current issues and contemporary topics to gain an understanding of the Finnish perspective. Offered as needed.
Students learn the basics of the Finnish language. Class work is based heavily on the oral skills of pronunciation and speaking. Grammar, vocabulary, hearing exercises, and written skills are also covered. Tervetuloa! Fall semester, even years.
Deepens understanding of the Finnish language. Students learn additional vocabulary, practice oral communication skills, and write short essays. Grammar and hearing exercises are also part of the course. Spring semester, odd years. Prerequisite: FNS 151 with a grade of C or higher.
Explores the country of Finland and its many aspects. Students gain an understanding of Finland as a modern nation. Topics include major historical periods of Finland, lifestyle, culture and mentality, education, politics and society, nature, and population. Fall and spring semesters.
The main emphasis of this class is on oral and written Finnish. Grammar, vocabulary, hearing, and reading comprehension exercises are part of the course. Students plan and present a 20-minute oral project at the conclusion of the class. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: FNS 152 with a grade of C or higher.
Emphasis on oral and written Finnish. Grammar, vocabulary, hearing, and reading comprehension exercises are part of the course. Students plan and present a 20-minute oral project at the conclusion of the class. The project is presented to the first-year Finnish language class. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: FNS 251 with a grade of C or higher.
Cross-listed with ENG 310. Surveys the literature of Finland, Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Iceland and their colonies. Examines traditional folklore and mythologies as well as modern novels, dramas and poetry. Reflects on the ways in which these various national literatures are both related and distinct, and considers what elements unite them across language and geography. Fall semester, odd years. Prerequisite: ENG 103 or instructor permission.
Cross-listed with GSS 316. This course explores the notion of gender within Scandinavian cultures with an emphasis on 20th and 21st centuries. Topics include Nordic feminisms, LGBT issues, the welfare state and its resultant emphasis on gender equality as well as gender issues in minority and immigrant groups. Fall semester, even years. Prerequisite: ENG 104.
Cross-listed with ANT 330. Europe’s only recognized indigenous people, the Sámi are an ethnic community from Northern Scandinavia related linguistically and culturally to Finns. This class will explore Sami peoples in historical, sociological, anthropological, and indigenous studies contexts. Sami traditional arts, subsistence practices, religious traditions, and political movements will receive special attention. Fall semester, odd years.
Cross-listed with ENG 360. Immortalized as Finland’s national epic, the Kalevala encapsulates ancient Finnish folk traditions. This course will detail the historical development of the Kalevala poetry tradition, its development and structure as a literary work, its use as an anthropological text, and its use as a political and cultural icon of Finnish identity. Spring semester, odd years.
Offers the student the opportunity to study a particular aspect of Finnish culture or society. Topics may include Finnish literature in translation, Finnish film, study of Finland’s national epic The Kalevala, and others. Offered as needed.
Examines the major themes and influences on the literature by Finnish North Americans in English, from the late 1800s through the present. Generational aspects from first, second, third and fourth generation immigrants will be studied across a selection of fiction, poetry, and creative nonfiction. Offered as needed.
Examines Finnish-American culture through concepts noted as evidence of Finnishness within the Finnish-American community including aspects of culture connoted by various media, food ways, music, crafts, recreation, and folkloric and literacy practices. Offered as needed.
Seminar in Finnish culture and society as well as anthropological qualitative research methods including 2.5 week collaborative research project in Finland to take place immediately following spring semester. Enrollment by accepted application in fall term. Students build communication, professional development, and team-based research skills. Spring semesters. Prerequisites: Junior standing and instructor approval.

This designation is for French language courses transferred to Finlandia University.

This course is an introduction to human geography and registers the fundamental relationship between human society and the environment at global levels of analysis. It emphasizes how different political, cultural, economic, and religious world views affect land and resource use and invites comparison between eastern and western hemispheres and how differing world views affect land and resource use. Offered as needed.
This course is an introduction to human geography and explores the relationship of human society and the environment. It emphasizes local and regional environmental processes and the patterns they create such as climate, landforms, vegetation, and ecosystems. Emphasizes technical and interpretive spatial skills as well as capacity for critical thought and expression. Offered as needed.
This course gives students an opportunity to investigate in greater depth aspects of the field of geography not covered extensively in other courses. Topics may include cultural or economic geography, the geography of Africa, the Pacific Rim, Europe, Michigan, and others. Offered as needed.

Foundational knowledge, theories, and methods examining the experience of gender and sexuality historically and across the globe are examined. Major theories concerning gender and sexuality, including feminist and queer theories, and interdisciplinary perspectives on research in gender and sexuality are discussed.  Spring semesters, even years.
Cross-listed with FNS 316. This course explores the notion of gender within Scandinavian cultures with an emphasis on 20th and 21st centuries. Topics include Nordic feminisms, LGBT issues, the welfare state and its resultant emphasis on gender equality as well as gender issues in minority and immigrant groups. Fall semester, even years. Prerequisite: ENG 104.

Focuses on the principles governing the study and practice of epidemiology. Explores the methodologies available to health professionals for selecting and measuring factors of interest, describing their distribution, detecting associations, and identifying populations at risk. Common epidemiological research designs are addressed. Spring semesters. Prerequisite: MAT 144 or higher.
Explores legal and ethical issues fundamental to the practice of healthcare and health-related research. Provides an overview of events and milestones that have shaped contemporary regulation. Topics include information privacy, confidentiality, informed consent, licensing, and malpractice. Ethical decision-making models are explored for ensuring quality, safety, and appropriateness of services. Spring semesters.
Provides a systems-level analysis of healthcare policy on access, equity, affordability, and social justice in delivery of services. Legislative, regulatory, and financial processes relevant to the organization and provision of services are examined with attention to their impact on quality and safety in the practice environment and disparities in the healthcare system. Fall semesters. Prerequisites: ECN 231, HCM 352.
Prepares healthcare managers for the responsibilities involved in maintaining a healthcare organization. Financial risk and insurance principles and mechanisms for healthcare reimbursement, including Medicare, Medicaid, and other payor programs, are also explained. The course explores the financial, political, and economic aspects of universal healthcare. Fall semesters. Prerequisites: ECN 231, BUS 200.
Focuses on major quality and safety issues within healthcare organizations. Methods of assessing quality and techniques for improving quality are considered as well as opportunities for preventing adverse events. Includes current requirements for reporting indicators of quality and pay-for-performance initiatives to reward quality. Spring semesters. Prerequisites: BUS 271, HCM 321, HCM 412.
Examines the application and use of information technology in clinical and managerial decision-making. Emphasizes information technology that supports the delivery of services including the collection, storage, retrieval, and communication of data; information systems safeguards; ethical and legal issues; and information management that promotes patient safety and quality of care. Spring semesters. Prerequisites: HCM 412.
Provides an opportunity for students to synthesize the knowledge and skills gained from the program of study through a written paper or project. Spring semesters. Prerequisite: Final course in curriculum.

Examines sculpture, architecture, and painting from pre-history through the medieval periods of Western Civilization. It also explores the arts of non-Western cultures. Fall semesters.
Explores sculpture, architecture, painting, and other art forms of Western and non-Western cultures from the Gothic period to the early 20th century. Spring semesters.
Employs a global perspective to examine the transformative nature and diversity of human experience from pre-historic societies through the 16th century. Political, economic, social, and cultural phenomena associated with the beginnings of human society, early civilizations, the emergence of pastoral peoples, classical traditions, world religions, and empires are surveyed. Fall semester, odd years.
Explores how different societies have responded to common concerns since 1500 C.E. Reveals the rise of the “West” and its impact as circumstantial rather than predetermined. Surveys the ways in which Western imperialism was uneven, subject to resistance, and colored by indigenous practice and agency. Special consideration is directed to critiques of “globalization” and its relationship to social justice, human rights, and cultural diversity. Spring semester, even years.
The history of the United States from the pre-contact period through the colonial encounter, the Age of Revolution, the early national period, the sectional crisis, the Civil War, to the close of Reconstruction. It examines the political, economic, ideological, socio-cultural, territorial-environmental, and demographic development of American society from both local and global perspectives. Fall semester, even years.
The history of the United States from the end of Reconstruction through the Nadir, the Industrial Age, transformations associated with urbanization, World Wars, the Great Depression, the Post War period, the Civil Rights Movement, to the new millennium’s intensifying global exchanges. Examines the political, economic, ideological, socio-cultural, territorial-environmental, and demographic development of modern American society from both national and global perspectives. Spring semester, odd years.
Utilizes films, along with primary and secondary sources, to examine a special topic in history. Topics include: The Atomic Age, America in the 1970s, America in the 1980s, Cold War America, and Women and Gender History. Spring semester, odd years.
A cultural/social/political/economic history of America and of globalization, all through the lens of postwar popular music. Topics include: race relations, identity politics, sexuality and gender, drug use, poverty, censorship, globalization, and transnational protest movements. Spring semester, even years.
Examines non-renewable resources and their role in world history. Topics include petroleum extraction and consumption; Standard Oil; WWI and the petroleum-military revolution; post-WWI Middle East geopolitics; oil’s role in WWII; petroleum economics; OPEC; oil alternatives; including nuclear power, and the future of global energy. Fall semester, odd years. Prerequisite: HIS 205, 206, 211 or 212.
Survey of major movements and modern perspectives in 20th and 21st century art. Media Art consisting of photography, video and computer generated imagery will also be discussed. The social and political context of each is examined. Fall semesters. Prerequisite: HIS 103 or HIS 203.
The most destructive period in human history, the 20th century- witnessed numerous radical political ideologies, cultural shifts, and social revolutions. Major themes include: Imperialism and Modernity, The Revolutions, World Wars I & II, Ideologies (Communism, Fascism, Maoism), Economic Worldviews, Post-Colonialism, and the Post-Cold War world. Spring semester, odd years.
Examines the growth of the U.S. economy as a whole, with special emphasis on: technological innovation; entrepreneurship; business structures; economic theory; political economy; marketing and mass media; business cycles; depressions and recessions; business trends; and the major innovators in US business history. Fall semester, even years. Prerequisite: HIS 205, 206, 211, 212 or BUS 138.
U.S. Environmental History since pre-European discovery. Topics include Native American environmental practices vs. colonial paradigms, environmental exploitation and market forces, conceptions of nature, ecological imperialism, conservationism vs. preservationism, water and westward expansion, national parks, radical environmentalism, natural resource scarcity, nuclear concerns, and climate change debates. Spring semester, even years. Prerequisite: HIS 205, 206, 211, 212 or ENV 202.
The Cold War was the post-WWII struggle between the United States and the Soviet Union for global, economic, ideological, and cultural hegemony. Course topics include political leaders, social movements, cultural trends, intellectuals in action, technological innovations, foreign policy, covert-ops, and legacies in American life. Fall semester, odd years. Prerequisite: HIS 205, 206, 211 or 212.
Offers an opportunity to explore topics either not found or only lightly touched on in history courses. Topics may include U.S. history from the 1960s to the 1990s, nationalism in the modern world, modern Russian history, oral history, and history of the Upper Peninsula and the Copper Country. Offered as needed.
History of U.S. foreign relations. Topics include: Early American diplomacy; westward expansion; global dimensions of American wars; ideological, economic, and political influence on foreign policy; major figures in American diplomacy; how race, class, and gender interpretations shape the discipline; covert operations & intelligence; domestic influence on/responses to US foreign relations. Fall semester, odd years or as needed. Prerequisite: HIS 211 or HIS 212.
A regional history that examines the political/cultural/social/religious history of the Middle East. Topics include: Islam; the Crusades; Women and Gender in the Middle East; the Gunpowder Empires; Orientalism; WW I and colonialism; Oil; Sufism; Radical Islam; Representations of the Middle East in popular culture; the Israeli-Palestinian conflict; Persian Gulf Wars. Spring semester, odd years or as needed. Prerequisite: HIS 205 or HIS 206.
Examines women’s experiences in modern global history, with an emphasis on America, Europe, and the Middle East. Major themes include: Gender and its construction; women and work; gender in the age of total war; suffrage; modern politics; feminism and its discontents; & representations in pop culture. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: Must have taken one or more 200-level history course.
This experiential learning opportunity focuses on exploring career interests, applying knowledge from the classroom, and developing practical on-the-job skills. Students are responsible for establishing their own internships. The internship may be taken for one, two, or three credit hours, with a minimum of 20 hours of supervised on-site work per credit hour. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: Cumulative GPA of at least 2.7 and instructor permission. Pass/fail only.
An overview that spans human activity from prehistoric antiquity to the unfolding of design and culture of the 21st Century. Artistic, social, political, and economic issues that have stimulated a design response are explored. Emphasis is on how individual and collective human needs and wants have dictated design, and how, in turn, design then influences human behavior. Spring semesters.
Students learn to do the work of a historian. Topics include: historiography (study of history and the field’s philosophy), methodology, archival research, and historical writing. Course concludes with students’ own research project and writing; class works collectively in the writing and revision process. Offered as needed. Prerequisites: Declared history major; HIS 205, 206, 211, 212, and at least one 300-level course.
Prepares students for HIS 499 Senior Capstone. Students will be introduced to the requirements of the capstone experience, determine their topic, and develop a prospectus. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: Senior standing and instructor permission. Pass/fail only.
Students prepare a research thesis on a topic of interest to the student. The thesis is intended to demonstrate the student’s ability to synthesize and apply knowledge. Offered as needed. Prerequisites: Senior status and instructor permission. Pass/fail only.

The student is introduced to the professional vocabulary of medical terms. Recognition, correct spelling, and pronunciation of medical terms will be presented as they relate to the diagnosis, pathology, and treatment of the major body systems. Fall and spring semesters.
Focus is given to the component parts of medical terms: prefixes, suffixes, combining forms, and root words. Students will learn, through a step-by-step word-building process, to understand and to be understood in the use of the language of medicine. Students practice formation, analysis, and reconstruction of terms. Emphasis is placed on spelling, definition, and pronunciation. This course provides an introduction to body systems, their operative, diagnostic, therapeutic and symptomatic terminology, as well as systemic and surgical terminology. Students study the application of these terms to medical documentation, physical examinations, and medical diagnostic procedures. Mastery of medical terminology is essential for successful administrative, clinical, and laboratory interaction in the complex health care environment. Spring semesters.
This course allows students to experience current topics in sports medicine along with observing up-to-date orthopedic injury assessment, and observing and assisting the athletic training staff with treatment, and rehabilitation of student athletes. Fall semesters.
This course is a continuation of the student athletic training I seminar and allows students to experience current topics in sports medicine along with observing up-to-date orthopedic injury assessment, and observing and assisting the athletic training staff with treatment, and rehabilitation. Prerequisite HSC 151. Spring semesters.
The student is introduced to the role of nutrition, exercise, and health behaviors in health promotion and disease prevention across the age continuum. Emphasizes understanding of the basic biological mechanisms through which adequate nutrition and exercise promote wellness. Fall semesters. Prerequisite: BIO 111 or instructor permission.
The student is introduced to the classification of medications and basic pharmacological principles. Students apply these basic principles to the identification of common medications, medication preparation, and administration of medications and effects of medications on major body systems. Fall semesters. Prerequisites: BIO 172 and MAT 140.
Legal and ethical issues within the health care environment are investigated with a focus on identifying complex legal and ethical issues, tort and criminal laws, and rules governing medical and health care practices. Specific issues of professional legal and ethical conduct, laws governing confidentiality, bioethics, medical records, reporting, end-of-life and beginning-of-life issues, and the effects of managed care and risk management procedures will be examined. Summer semesters.
The study of major pathophysiologic concepts, from the cellular level to the resultant abnormal functioning of the organ systems is examined. Topics include inflammation, immunity, neoplasia and allergy, and the most commonly acquired and hereditary diseases. In particular, disorders commonly encountered by practicing health professionals are emphasized. Concepts from anatomy and physiology provide the foundation for exploring human dysfunction. Fall semesters. Prerequisite: BIO 172.
Students are provided the opportunity to explore contemporary issues in health care. Topics will vary and may include such areas as injury/disease prevention, health promotion/wellness, innovative advances in health care, legal/ethical considerations, socioeconomic/cultural aspects of health care needs, and the health care delivery system. Spring semesters. Prerequisite: Junior level standing; permission of CHS Dean for students in AAS programs.
This Clinical Applications course is intended for Health Science students from different fields (i.e. nursing, health care management, health information management). The course is designed to provide the development of advanced knowledge and skills related to clinical applications, using a clinical team approach to provide comprehensive quality care. Students will gain hands-on clinical application experiences throughout the course and demonstrate their technology training within predefined clinical settings. Prerequisite: Junior Standing. Fall semesters
This course focuses on the practice of clinical case management with a special emphasis on clinical care coordination and population health assessment through the use of medical informatics. The course is designed to provide students with knowledge and experience in providing case management services and population health assessment. Students will examine elements critical for the effective provision and evaluation of case management services and review current research on case management effectiveness. Prerequisite: HSC 401. Spring Semesters

Introduces students to the Liberal Studies disciplines—the humanities, social sciences, natural sciences, and mathematics. Through reading and discussion students learn how each discipline responds to the world, approaches problems, poses questions, and develops new knowledge. Examples of thinking and writing across disciplinary lines are explored. Offered as needed.
Offers students an opportunity to explore in depth a sub-genre or theme of the humanistic experience as viewed by diverse contemporary religious thinkers representing both the East and the West. Offered as needed.
This experiential learning opportunity focuses on exploring career interests, applying knowledge from the classroom, and developing practical on-the-job skills. Students are responsible for establishing their own internships. The internship may be taken for one, two, or three credit hours, with a minimum of 20 hours of supervised on-site work per credit hour. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: Cumulative GPA of at least 2.7 and instructor permission. Pass/fail only.
Cross-listed with ENG 401. Starting with autobiography this class will use history as the touchstone for further readings in the genres of fiction, poetry, essays, drama, and film/art criticism in the area of Native Americans in literature, visual art, and film. Native American artists, ideas of identity and National identity, as well as the portrayal of Native American Peoples in the larger American popular culture will be explored. Spring semester, even years.
Prepares students for HUM 499 Senior Capstone. Students will be introduced to the requirements of the capstone experience, determine their topic, and develop a prospectus. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: Senior standing and instructor permission. Pass/fail only.
Students prepare a research thesis on a topic of interest to the student. The thesis is intended to demonstrate the student’s ability to synthesize and apply knowledge. Offered as needed. Prerequisites: Senior status and instructor permission. Pass/fail only.

This course will provide the student with the concepts and skills needed for an introductory college mathematics course. Topics include arithmetic of the real numbers, exponents, order of operation, proportions, percents, ratios, scientific notation, square roots, and an introduction to algebra. This course cannot be used to fulfill degree requirements. Fall and Spring semesters. Prerequisite: Academic Placement.
Bridges the gap between elementary algebra and pre-calculus. Topics include equations and inequalities, polynomials, application problems, rational expressions, exponents and radicals, quadratic equations and inequalities, and graphs of linear and quadratic functions. Fall and spring semesters. Prerequisite: MAT 101 or academic placement.
Topics include measurement, unit prefixes, parts per, unit conversions, scientific notation, applications of the logarithm base 10, ratios, proportions, rates, percentages, total change vs. percent change, charts and graphs, linear and exponential functions, linear and exponential regression, and handling data. Fall and spring semesters. Prerequisite: Academic placement.
Topics include algebraic operations on polynomial and rational expressions; solving linear, quadratic, and polynomial equations and inequalities; the graphing of functions; systems of equations and determinants; exponential and logarithmic functions; and the theory of equations, sequences, and probability. Fall and spring semesters. Prerequisite: MAT 140 or academic placement.
Demonstrates a non-traditional way of thinking about mathematics. Linked with art and design, the inner logic of symmetry, shape, and space are discovered through innovative hands-on practice. The course develops the fundamental concepts of geometry through visual projects. Course topics contribute perspectives on application in art and design. Offered as needed.
Topics include the study of algebraic, logarithmic, exponential, and trigonometric functions; limits; continuity; derivatives and their applications; introduction to integrals; The Fundamental Theorem of Calculus; applications of the definite integral; and beginning integration techniques. Fall semesters. Prerequisite: MAT 145 or placement.
Descriptive statistics, probability, counting techniques, and probability distributions, including normal, t- and chi-square techniques for statistical inference. Confidence intervals and tests of hypothesis, and linear regression and correlation. Meaningful interpretation of statistical measures and the application of statistical methods to problem solving and decision making. Spring semesters. Prerequisite: MAT 144 or 145.

Note: Medical Assistant credits are differentiated by theory and clinical components. For example, (4-2) indicates four theory credit hours and two clinical hours. Each clinical credit hour is equivalent to three clock hours.
Introduces office management and business administration. Students will learn to schedule appointments, file, manage records, perform telephone and reception duties, and communicate effectively with patients, community members, and other health care and medical office staff. Includes laboratory. Summer semesters. Prerequisites: ENG 104, HSC 118. Co-requisite: MAS 207.
This introduction to the basics of medical records management provides the opportunity to put administrative skills learned in previous coursework into practice in a simulated medical setting using electronic health care records (EHR) and allows the student to learn about EHR management practices. Summer semesters. Co-requisite: MAS 205.
Introduction to medical office insurance billing procedures, patient financial records, computerized billing, collection procedures, and the identification and billing of various insurance plans including private, Medicare, Medicaid, TRICARE, Worker’s Compensation, HMO, group insurance plans, CHAMPUS, and disability. Includes laboratory. Fall semesters. Prerequisites: HSC 118, MAS 205.
Introduction to basic coding concepts, guidelines, and skills needed to successfully perform tasks in medical coding. Diagnostic and procedural coding using the International Classification of Disease (ICD) and the Procedural Terminology (CPT) systems required for medical insurance claims and statistical information tracking in health care facilities. Includes laboratory. Fall semesters. Prerequisites: HSC 118, MAS 205.
Provides the student with an introduction to routine laboratory procedures while following laboratory safety requirements and federal regulations on testing. Includes laboratory. Fall semesters. Prerequisites: BIO 172, HSC 118, HSC 246.
Introduction to clinical procedures performed in the healthcare clinic setting. Students perform basic examination room skills, including basic assessment screening, vital signs, patient history, and preparation of patients for routine and specialty exams and procedures. Includes laboratory. Fall semesters. Prerequisites: BIO 172, HSC 118, HSC 246. Co-requisite HSC 240.
Prepares students to perform laboratory procedures commonly performed in the ambulatory care setting under the supervision of a physician. Skills learned will include phlebotomy, immunology, hematology, and chemistry laboratory procedures. Includes laboratory. Spring semesters. Prerequisites: MAS 221 and MAS 222.
Prepares students to perform patient care skills and basic clinical procedures, including administering medications, assisting the health care provider with patient examinations and minor surgery, performing an electrocardiogram, assisting with respiratory testing, and maintaining clinical equipment and the clinical environment. Includes laboratory. Spring semesters. Prerequisites: MAS 221 and MAS 222.
Integration and application of administrative knowledge and skills in the healthcare setting. Students will engage in administrative duties performed at the clinical site in order to gain entry-level mastery of skill and knowledge competencies for the medical assistant. Students will perform administrative duties under the supervision of trained mentors. Spring semesters. Co-requisites: MAS 231 and MAS 232.
Integration and application of clinical and laboratory knowledge and skills in the health care setting. Students will perform medical assistant clinical and laboratory duties in order to gain entry-level mastery of skill and knowledge competencies for the medical assistant. Students will perform clinical and laboratory duties under the supervision of trained mentors. Spring semesters. Co-requisites: MAS 231 and MAS 232.

Introduces the student to a coding system used by physician’s offices and outpatient facilities for coding outpatient procedures. The course will include instruction on how to analyze, assign, and sequence coding procedures in the CPT and HCPCS coding systems. Includes laboratory. Fall semesters. Prerequisite: HSC118, and MAS 207.
Introduces the student to a coding system used by hospitals for coding inpatient procedures. The course will include instruction on how to analyze, assign, and sequence coding procedures in the ICD-10-PCS coding system. Includes laboratory. Spring semesters. Prerequisite: MBC252.
Introduces the student to ICD-10-CM data set used for reporting diagnoses. This course will also include instruction on how to classify and index diagnoses in the healthcare setting. The various uses for diagnosis codes will be discussed as well. Includes laboratory. Fall semesters. Prerequisites: HSC118, and MAS 207.
Further expands upon Diagnosis Coding I. The application of coding guidelines will continue to be reinforced. Includes Laboratory. Spring semesters. Prerequisite: MBC 262.
Prepares students for challenges in the workplace by improving their critical thinking and problem-solving skills using case studies. Students will examine, analyze develop, and implement workplace solutions. During the externship phase of training, the student will experience various aspects of working in the insurance billing and coding field. Spring semesters. Co-requisites: MBC 256, MBC 266 Spring Semester.

Freshman-level instrumental ensemble open to all students without audition. Proper techniques, developments, timbre and blending of instrumental performance both individually and as a group, as well as the practice and performance of multiple styles and genres of music. Explores music of all types, as well as the music of other cultures, Western and non-Western, through public performances. Offered as needed.
A survey of American music of the U.S. Students will gain an understanding of music as an art form through listening and discussion of works from folk, Native American, blues, gospel, jazz, classical, and popular genres. Concert attendance is required. Offered as needed.
A survey of music literature in the Western world from the Middle Ages to the present. Students will gain an understanding of classical music as an art form through listening and discussion of choral, orchestral, solo, opera, chamber, and electronic works. Concert attendance is required. Offered as needed.
Introduces the fundamentals of music theory. The structural elements of music are explored through lessons on the piano keyboard, including note and staff reading, intervals, major and minor scales, key signatures, meters, and rhythms. Offered as needed.
Develops keyboard technique by emphasizing music-reading fluency, functional skills, technical facility, and performance of beginning to advanced-level piano literature. Provides an opportunity to study piano in an atmosphere of academic rigor. Students with prior piano study are assigned coursework appropriate to their level of experience. Offered as needed.
Freshman-level strings ensemble open to all students without audition. Covers the proper techniques, developments, timbre and blending of instrumental performance both individually and as a group, as well as the practice and performance of multiple styles and genres of music. The ensemble explores music of all types, as well as the music of other cultures, Western and non-Western, through public performances. Offered as needed.
Mixed vocal ensemble dedicated to the study, rehearsal, and performance of a cappella and accompanied choral literature from the Renaissance to the contemporary era. Emphasis is on the development of sight-reading, good vocal production, and accurate vocal pitch. No audition required. Offered as needed.
Sophomore-level instrumental ensemble open to all students without audition. Proper techniques, developments, timbre and blending of instrumental performance both individually and as a group, as well as the practice and performance of multiple styles and genres of music. Explores music of all types, as well as the music of other cultures, Western and non-Western, through public performances. Offered as needed.
Continuation of MUS 125. The structural elements of music are explored through lessons in triads, inversions, tonics, dominants, subdominants, cadences, and sequences. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: MUS 125.
Basic singing-on-sight of melodic material using the solfege system, including scales, intervals, and simple melodies with various rhythms. Ear training includes basic rhythmic and melodic material, identifying the difference between major and minor scales, major and minor triads, diminished and augmented chords, and the identification of different intervals. Offered as needed.
This course develops keyboard technique by emphasizing music-reading fluency, functional skills, technical facility, and performance of elementary to advanced- level standard piano literature. Provides students an opportunity to study piano in an atmosphere of academic rigor. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: MUS 132.
Offers the student the opportunity to explore a fine arts sub-genre or theme not covered by the regular survey courses. Offered as needed.
Mixed vocal ensemble dedicated to the study, rehearsal, and performance of a cappella and accompanied choral literature from the Renaissance to the contemporary era. Emphasis is on the development of sight-reading, good vocal production, and accurate vocal pitch. No audition required. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: MUS 154.
Junior-level instrumental ensemble open to all students without audition. Proper techniques, developments, timbre and blending of instrumental performance both individually and as a group, as well as the practice and performance of multiple styles and genres of music. Explores music of all types, as well as the music of other cultures, Western and non-Western, through public performances. Offered as needed.
Develops keyboard technique by emphasizing music-reading fluency, functional skills, technical facility, and performance of late elementary to advanced-level standard piano literature. Provides students an opportunity to study piano in an atmosphere of academic rigor. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: MUS 232.
Mixed vocal ensemble dedicated to the study, rehearsal, and performance of a cappella and accompanied choral literature from the Renaissance to the contemporary era. Emphasis is on the development of sight-reading, good vocal production, and accurate vocal pitch. No audition required. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: MUS 254.
Senior-level instrumental ensemble open to all students without audition. Proper techniques, developments, timbre and blending of instrumental performance both individually and as a group, as well as the practice and performance of multiple styles and genres of music. Explores music of all types, as well as the music of other cultures, Western and non-Western, through public performances. Offered as needed.
Develops keyboard technique by emphasizing music-reading fluency, functional skills, technical facility, and performance of standard piano literature. Provides students an opportunity to study piano in an atmosphere of academic rigor. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: MUS 332.
Mixed vocal ensemble dedicated to the study, rehearsal, and performance of a cappella and accompanied choral literature from the Renaissance to the contemporary era. Emphasis is on the development of sight-reading, good vocal production, and accurate vocal pitch. No audition required. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: MUS 354.

Nursing credits are differentiated by theory and clinical components. For example, (4-2) indicates four theory credit hours and two clinical hours. Each clinical credit hour is equivalent to three clock hours.
Clinical Transitions is a self-directed course designed for students who have been out of the nursing sequence for more than one semester. Independent study, technical skills testing, and patient care experiences are planned to review and evaluate a student’s readiness to re-enter the nursing sequence. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: Must be enrolled in the Nursing major. Requires approval of the Nursing Department chair.
Introduction to the basic concepts of pharmacology and their relationships to health care. Focuses on the major drug classifications, principles of drug actions/interactions, application of specific drugs in the treatment of disease, normal and abnormal responses to drug therapy, dosage calculations, and appropriate nursing actions to achieve desired outcomes of drug therapy. The nurse’s role and responsibilities in clinical pharmacology are examined. Fall semesters. Prerequisites: BIO 172 and CHM 145.
Provides an introduction to the skills used in data collection and physical assessment, including interviewing, communication, comprehensive history taking, physical assessment, and formulating a nursing diagnosis. The course draws on the nursing process in assessing the health of individuals across the lifespan. Fall semesters. Prerequisites: BIO 172 and HSC 112.
Introduces nursing students to the concepts, terminology, equipment, and math calculations necessary for safe medication administration in the clinical setting. Topics include systems of measurements, equivalents and conversions, selected abbreviations, and computation of medication dosages. Fall semesters. Prerequisite: MAT 140. Co-requisite: NUR 204
Introduces the basic concepts of the practice of nursing. An introduction to Nursing program philosophy is presented. Focuses on the skills required to care for adult clients in structured, non-emergent environments using demonstration and simulated practice. The role of the nurse as provider of care is discussed. Students are introduced to the clinical setting where the nursing process is used as the basis for decision making and nursing behaviors. Communication skills and nurse-client relationships are developed. Laboratory settings include campus lab, senior living complex, community events, schools, and in-patient units. Fall semesters. Prerequisite: BIO 172. Taken concurrently with NUR 200 and NUR 202.
Provides students with the opportunity to use previously attained nursing skills in caring for an adult client in a non-emergent environment. Students apply the skills necessary to demonstrate the role of the nurse as provider of care. Spring semesters. Prerequisites: NUR 202 and NUR 204. Taken concurrently with NUR 206.
Introduces concepts and diseases common to the general practice of health care. Studies how normal physiological processes are altered by disease. Core content provides understanding of the mechanisms and principles of disruptions of health. Theories related to pathogenesis, etiology, and clinical manifestations are used to study common diseases with an emphasis on clinical correlations. Spring semesters. Prerequisites: BIO 172 and CHM 145.
Provides theoretical and clinical foundations for application of the nursing process in support of the person’s mental health. Examines theories, concepts, and responses related to mental health and illness. Further develops nursing assessment and intervention and explores patient rights and legal issues for individuals and groups of mental health clients in various health care and community environments. Applies Individual and group nursing care used to promote, maintain, and restore the person’s mental health. Spring semesters. Prerequisites: NUR 200, NUR 202, and NUR 204. Corequisites: NUR 205 and NUR 206.
Cross-listed with REL 309. Provides greater understanding of the interaction between spirituality and healthcare. Students will be encouraged to explore and define their own spirituality, identify and consider the spirituality of others, and explore the interaction between spirituality, health, illness, and adversity. Fall semesters.
Designed to enable the students to examine nursing from a historical as well as present day perspective. Examines the organizing framework of the nursing program philosophy and the concepts of nursing, person, environment, and health that underscore nursing’s metaparadigm. Nursing conceptual models and theories and their relationship to research and professional nursing practice are discussed. Fall semesters. Prerequisites: ENG 104 and NUR 204.
Introduces the concepts of the research process including research methodologies, measurement, and analysis of research data provides students with a basis to interpret and evaluate research and its application to practice. Emphasis is placed on students becoming knowledgeable consumers of research. Spring semesters. Prerequisites: MAT 140 and NUR 312.
Theoretical and clinical foundations are applied using the nursing process in caring for children and child-bearing families throughout the lifespan including women’s health. Emphasizes the promotion, maintenance, and restoration of health of the primary family unit, including the concepts of changing relationships and the impact of the community and culture on growing families. Physiological and psychosocial adaptation of the child and family during normal and complex health needs are addressed. Fall semesters. Prerequisite: NUR 300. Co-requisite: PSY 260. Taken concurrently with NUR 324.
Expands theoretical foundation for application of the nursing process throughout the adult lifespan. Scientific principles in health promotion and management of care are applied with adults experiencing health deficits. Critical judgments in planning and implementing nursing interventions are integrated in caring for adults in various health care environments. Fall semesters. Prerequisite: NUR 300. Taken concurrently with NUR 320.
Further expands the theoretical foundation of the nursing process throughout the adult lifespan. Scientific principles in health promotion and management of care are applied with adults experiencing health deficits. Critical judgments in planning and implementing nursing interventions are integrated in caring for adults in various health care environments. Spring semesters. Prerequisite: NUR 320, NUR 324. Taken concurrently with NUR 318.
This summer course broadens the clinical professional nursing experience and prepares students for the final year of the BSN curriculum. The primary focus is an expanded opportunity for achieving clinical competencies in acute and urgent care settings within the regional medical center. A total of 135 contact hours is required with time scheduled for pre-clinical activities, hospital orientation, day and evening shift rotations in various acute and urgent care settings, and compiling final case presentations to share individual experiences with others. Travel associated with scheduled clinical experiences at a regional medical center is expected. Summer semesters. Prerequisites: NUR 318, NUR 328, and PSY 260.
Synthesizes previously acquired theoretical and clinical foundation for application of the nursing process as it relates to management in professional nursing. Further development of entry-level leadership and management skills as provider of care and manager of clients with complex multidimensional health problems. Students refine their autonomy, accountability, collaboration, and caring communication in managing groups of clients in a variety of settings. Fall semesters. Prerequisites: NUR 312, NUR 318, and NUR 400. Taken concurrently with NUR 404.
Explores the issues and trends in nursing as a profession. Social, economic, political, and educational forces influencing nursing and health care in the United States are discussed. The professional, legal, and ethical responsibilities of the nurse, and the career opportunities available within the profession, are examined. Health care delivery systems, entry into practice, and professional organizations are discussed. Investigates role socialization from student to professional nurse. Taken in the final year of the Nursing program. Fall semesters. Prerequisites: NUR312, NUR 318, and NUR 400.
Focuses on the theoretical and clinical foundation for application of the nursing process in caring for individuals, families, groups, and the community as a client. Emphasis on disease prevention, health promotion, health maintenance, health education, and coordination of care. Content includes application of public health nursing principles, epidemiological investigation, knowledge of rural environments, supervision and leadership in promoting desired health evaluation, and outcomes in community and home environments. Explores the roles of the nurse as teacher, collaborator, advocate, and direct care provider. Spring semesters. Prerequisites: All previously sequenced nursing courses and NUR 404. Must be taken concurrently with NUR 408 in the final semester of the Nursing program.
Capstone experience in which students synthesize evidence-based practice and theoretical and research-based knowledge to develop a senior project using critical thinking skills, critical judgment, and independent decision-making. Students demonstrate proficiency in meeting the BSN terminal objectives and accreditation outcome criteria. Spring semesters. Must be taken concurrently with NUR 406 in the final semester of the Nursing program.

Note: Nursing credits are differentiated for theory and clinical components. For example, (4-2) indicates four theory credit hours and two clinical hours. Each clinical credit hour is equivalent to three clock hours.
Introduces the associate degree or Diploma RN to the BSN curriculum, including an overview of the program philosophy, competencies, outcomes, and conceptual framework, and to facilitate the transition from the role as practicing nurse to that of professional nurse. Explores the student’s motivation to continue his or her education and examine the historical and theoretical development of the profession as it relates to nursing practice and its ability to influence public opinion. Alternative roles for future professional practitioners will also be explored. Fall and spring semesters. Prerequisites: RN Licensure.
Focuses on issues related to pharmacology which are prevalent in contemporary nursing practice. Additionally, the course will consider the role pharmacology plays in our health care system, and consequently in our society. Fall semesters. Prerequisites: RN Licensure, BIO 172, or instructor permission.
Introduction to the principles of diagnostic and therapeutic procedures, including laboratory, imaging, cardiopulmonary, neurovascular, and endoscopic procedures. Scientific rationale and nursing implications for selected diagnostic and therapeutic procedures will be discussed. Spring semesters. Prerequisite: RN licensure or instructor permission.
Review of pathophysiological processes leading to alteration of body structure and functions for the practicing RN. Identification of etiology and pathogenesis of selected diseases. Spring semesters. Prerequisites: RN Licensure, BIO 172, MAT 140 or instructor permission.
Introduces the concepts of the research process and its application to nursing practice including the basics of qualitative and quantitative approaches to research and the measurement and analysis of research data. This course provides students with a basis to interpret and evaluate research and its application to nursing knowledge and practice. Emphasis is placed on students becoming knowledgeable consumers of research as they expand their nursing practice. Spring semesters. Prerequisite: MAT 140; Corequisite: NUR 343Z.
Provides greater understanding of the interaction between spirituality and healthcare. Students will be encouraged to explore and define their own spirituality, identify and consider the spirituality of others, and explore the interaction between spirituality, health, illness, and adversity. Fall semesters.
An overview of selected health issues including topics such as: women’s rights across the globe, emerging infections, the state of health care in other nations, healthy aging, the impact of cultural beliefs and traditions on health, and the ethical implications of advances in science and technology, such as the impact of genetic engineering, gene therapy, and reproductive technology. Offered as needed.
Theoretical and clinical foundation for application of the nursing process in caring for individuals, families, groups, and the community as a client. Emphasis on disease prevention, health promotion, health maintenance, health education, and coordination of care. Includes application of public health nursing principles, epidemiological investigation, knowledge of rural environments, as well as supervision and leadership in promoting desired health evaluation, and outcomes in community and home environments. Expands the roles of the nurse as teacher, collaborator, advocate, and direct care provider. Fall semesters. Prerequisites: RN licensure, NUR 343-Z and NUR 348-Z (may be taken concurrently).
This course synthesizes the previously acquired theoretical and clinical foundation for application of the nursing process as it relates to management in professional nursing. Entry-level leadership and management skills as provider of care and manager of clients with complex multidimensional health problems are further developed. Students refine their autonomy, accountability, collaboration, and caring communication in managing groups of clients in a variety of settings. Spring semesters. Prerequisites: RN licensure, NUR 343-Z, and NUR 348-Z (may be taken concurrently).
This course is designed to serve as a capstone experience wherein students synthesize evidence-based practice, and theoretical and research-based knowledge for the purpose of developing a senior project utilizing critical thinking skills, critical judgment, and independent decision-making. Students will demonstrate proficiency in meeting the BSN terminal objectives and accreditation outcome criteria. Fall and spring semesters. Prerequisites: NUR 442-Z and NUR 446-Z To be completed in the final semester of the Nursing program.

This beginning course offers an overview of topics in Western philosophy using readings from original sources. It explores attempts to answer such questions as: What is the nature of reality? of human knowledge? of moral good? Class discussion and written assignments encourage the development of orderly philosophical reflection. Fall semesters.
Classical topics in Western philosophical ethics, applied to current ethical concerns in areas such as the value of life, sexuality, medicine, business, media, and the environment. Fall and spring semesters.
Examines primary texts of ancient Greek philosophy, beginning with the pre-Socratics and moving through the giants of the ancient philosophical world: Plato and Aristotle. Also includes ancient philosophical traditions such as Epicureanism and Stoicism. Spring semester, odd years.
Provides a survey of the great thinkers of the modern period by reading the primary texts of figures such as Descartes, Hobbes, Spinoza, Locke, Leibniz, Berkeley, Hume, and Kant. Main questions discussed include: “What is real?”; “What can I know?”; and “What is enlightenment?”. Fall semester, odd years.
Provides an opportunity to gain an introductory level of understanding of major fields within philosophy. Topics may include the Self, Modern Philosophy, Logic, and Social Philosophy. Offered as needed.
Provides a detailed understanding of many of the ethical arguments in health care concerning issues like abortion, euthanasia, clinical practice, justice in the allocation of health care, and others, from ethical-theoretical perspectives, including deontology, virtue ethics, utilitarianism, and feminism. Spring semester, even years.
Examines our environmental crisis from both a conceptual and an ethical point of view by looking at the empirical elements of our current crisis, the conceptual roots of the crisis, and the ways to change our understanding of the human relation to the environment. Issues include population and consumption, anthropogenic climate change, environmental justice, and the challenge of supporting environmentalism in a capitalistic society. Offered as needed.
Provides an analysis of the understandings of sex and gender in the Western world through a philosophical lens. Primary questions include “What is sex?”; “Is one’s sexual orientation biologically given or socially constructed, or a combination of both?”; and “How does the conception of gender change historically in the Western world?” Major thinkers include Plato, Sigmund Freud, Simone de Beauvoir, Michel Foucault, and Judith Butler. Spring semester, odd years.
Using important representative figures, compares Western and non-Western contributions to such areas of philosophy as metaphysics, epistemology, ethics, esthetics, philosophy of religion, and political philosophy. Spring semester, even years.
Chronicles the existentialism movement of the 20th century by looking at some precursors to the movement in Kierkegaard and Dostoyevsky, and then the movement itself by looking at figures such as Nietzsche, Heidegger, Sartre, Camus, and de Beauvoir. Key concepts may include nihilism, the absurd, the re-evaluation of all values, and authenticity. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: PHL 101 or PHL 212.
A survey of a main philosophical movement of the last century—analytic philosophy—and its related movements of logical positivism, philosophy of science, and philosophy of language. Figures from the analytic tradition may include Russell, Wittgenstein, Ayer, Quine, Popper, and Kuhn, among others. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: PHL 101.
A survey of the major thinkers from the Continental philosophical tradition through the lenses of phenomenology, hermeneutics, and the Frankfurt school. Figures may include Husserl, Heidegger, Merleau- Ponty, Gadamer, Marcuse, Foucault, Horkheimer and Adorno, among others. Spring semester, even years. Prerequisite: PHL 101.
Provides a survey of the three great traditions in Chinese philosophy—Confucianism, Daoism, and Buddhism—by reading primary texts from each tradition. Major thinkers may include Kongzi, Mengzi, Laozi, Zhuangzi,and Fazang, among others. Themes covered may include the way of nature, virtue, filial piety, ritual, and enlightenment. Fall semester, even years. Prerequisite: PHL 101 or REL 204.
This course gives students an opportunity for in-depth exploration of an aspect of philosophy not dealt with extensively in other courses. Topics may include bioethics, theories of human nature, and meaning of life. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: PHL 101 or instructor permission.
This experiential learning opportunity focuses on exploring career interests, applying knowledge from the classroom, and developing practical on-the-job skills. Students are responsible for establishing their own internships. The internship may be taken for one, two, or three credit hours, with a minimum of 20 hours of supervised on-site work per credit hour. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: Cumulative GPA of at least 2.7 and instructor permission. Pass/fail only.
An in-depth examination of a pivotal work in philosophy. Examples may include Plato’s Republic, Descartes’ Meditations on First Philosophy, Kant’s Critique of Pure Reason, Heidegger’s Being and Time, or Gadamer’s Truth and Method, among others. (For majors only). Offered as needed. Prerequisite: PHL 101.
Cross-listed with REL 460. Looks at the history of the self by exploring some pivotal thinkers in each epoch of Western history: the ancient, medieval, and modern. It then tries to understand what it means to be a self in contemporary society using postmodern thinkers as its background. Spring semester, odd years. Prerequisite: PHL 101 or PHL 212.
Prepares students for PHL 499 Senior Capstone. Students will be introduced to the requirements of the capstone experience, determine their topic, and develop a prospectus. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: Senior standing and instructor permission. Pass/fail only.
Students prepare a research thesis on a topic of interest to the student. The thesis is intended to demonstrate the student’s ability to synthesize and apply knowledge. Offered as needed. Prerequisites: Senior status and instructor permission. Pass/fail only.

Introductory physics class covering topics from classical mechanics and thermodynamics such as particle dynamics, energy, Newton’s laws of motion, rotation, gravitation, oscillation, fluid mechanics, sound, and the laws of thermodynamics. Includes laboratory. Fall semester, odd years. Prerequisites: MAT 140 or instructor permission.
A continuation of PHS 105. Topics include electricity and magnetism, optics and light, atomic structure and spectra, nuclear physics and radiation. Includes laboratory. Spring semester, even years. Prerequisite: PHS 105 with a grade of C- or better.
Introductory earth science topics related to geology and meteorology including rocks and minerals, plate tectonics, earthquakes, volcanoes, atmospheric structure and composition, and the Earth’s radiation budget. Local geology and climate are also emphasized. Includes laboratory. Spring semesters.
Survey of basic physics concepts including motion, forces, energy, heat, wave motion (light and sound), electricity, magnetism, and modern physics. Physics principles are used to introduce students to astronomy. Includes laboratory. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: MAT 140 or above or instructor permission.

Introduction to the U.S. political system. Adopts transnational and comparative perspectives in examining the origins and present powers of the American government at local, state, and national levels, and the complex ways in which state and civil society interact to determine public policy and social relations. Critical vantage on the U.S. government prompts deeper understanding of the individual’s relationship to the nation and to the world at large. Offered as needed.
This course offers the student an opportunity to explore in greater depth topics not covered fully in political science courses. Topics may include the American presidency, politics and the environment, comparative governments, or political theory. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: PLS 221 or instructor permission.
Historical, economic, political, geographic, ideological, and cultural, and environmental factors that shape international relations. Focus on the nature of the state, the formation of nations, foreign policy, international relations theory, and current policy debates. Particular emphasis on the social forces associated with globalism in structuring international relations for the new millennium. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: PLS 221 or instructor permission.

Designed to introduce students to the diverse discipline of psychology. Required course work and entrance examinations for the field are discussed. Activities may include guest speakers, interviews, and site visits. Fall semesters. Pass/fail only.
Introduction to the study of human behavior and cognitive processes. Major topics typically include biological foundations, life-span development, learning, personality, perception, memory, states of consciousness, stress, and social psychology. Fall and spring semesters.
Social psychology is the study of human behavior, thoughts, and feelings, in social contexts. This course will focus on major theories and theorists in the discipline of social psychology, place those contributions within a larger historical context, and strive to find connections between course content and daily life. Spring semesters. Prerequisite: PSY 101.
Explores the subfield of personality psychology. Personality refers to an individual’s unique, characteristic, way of thinking, feeling, and behaving. Major historical and modern theories in personality, the relation of those theories and major research methodology, and the links between personality characteristics and outcomes in everyday life. Topics may include theories of individual differences, the link between personality characteristics and outcomes such as aggression, interpersonal behaviors, and beliefs about the self. Fall semester, even years. Prerequisite: PSY 101.
Provides an introductory exploration of human cognition. Topics may include thinking processes as related to perception, memory, attention, reasoning, decision making, and problem solving. Both classic and current issues are discussed. Fall semester, odd years. Prerequisite: PSY 101.
Cultural, biological, and psychological aspects of the abnormal personality. Case histories are analyzed in the context of Diagnostic and Statistical Manual-Fourth Edition (DSM-IV). Various theories of deviance and disorder are discussed. Spring semesters. Prerequisite: PSY 101.
Introduction to a major field within psychology. Topics may include social psychology, perception, and cognitive psychology. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: PSY 101.
This course examines the psychological development of infants and children through adolescence from biological, cognitive, social, and emotional perspectives. Foundational and contemporary theories and research in developmental psychology are explored. Biological, cognitive, and social influences explored. Fall semesters. Prerequisite: PSY 101.
This course introduces the theoretical foundations, central concepts, and principles of learning and behavior. The course explores mechanisms of behavioral change as they relate to experience. The course focuses on classical and operant conditioning as foundations for modern learning theory, but also introduces more advanced aspects of behavior and cognition. Spring semester, odd years. Prerequisite: PSY 101.
Examines major theories of emotion from a variety of perspectives. Analyzes the function and structure of emotion; the interplay between emotion, behavior, cognition; and physiology. Spring semester, odd years. Prerequisite: PSY 210 or PSY 230.
Examines the current research on gender similarities and differences. Covers major theories and theorists that shed light upon the psychology of gender. Topics may include: gender role stereotypes, gender identity, and how gender impacts relationships, communication, and health. Fall semester, even years. Prerequisite: PSY 210 or PSY 261.
An in?depth analysis of various aspects of human sexuality, emphasizing the biological, environmental, and social contexts in which sexual behavior occurs. Topics include different theoretical perspectives on human sexuality, gender roles, sexual orientation, relationships, sexual behavior, sex education, and sexual dysfunction. Fall semester, odd years. Prerequisite: any 200-level PSY course.
Explores the psychological self from multiple perspectives including social, developmental, and cognitive. Issues discussed include development of the self, self-motives and their influence on behavior, and the self in social processes. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: PSY 210.
Focuses on the stigmatization process from a psychological perspective including the impact of stigma, or devalued social identities, on members of stigmatized and majority groups; the construct of stigma and its origins; stigma management; and other related topics. Fall semester, odd years. Prerequisite: PSY 210.
An in-depth analysis of social cognition. Examines how people make sense of themselves and of others in their social world. Topics include modern and historical theories of social cognitive process, how people make sense of their personal characteristics and the characteristics of others, and how thought processes influence social interaction. Spring semester, even years. Prerequisite: PSY 210 or PSY 230.
Provides an opportunity for in-depth exploration of an aspect of the field of psychology not dealt with extensively in other psychology courses. Topics may include developmental theory, forensic psychology, or applied behavior analysis. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: PSY 101.
Introduction to the methods of psychological inquiry. Students learn how to design and conduct research, and how to become critical consumers of it. An overview of the various psychological research strategies is presented and students perform some preliminary research. Focuses on conceptual and applied dimensions of psychological research. Fall semester, even years. Prerequisite: PSY 101.
Cross-listed with SOC 354. Designed to give students a broad overview of the statistical methods used in the social sciences. Topics include measures of central tendency, probability, hypothesis testing, and association between variables. Spring semesters. Prerequisites: MAT 145; PSY 353 or SOC 353; or instructor permission.
This course examines theories and research related to the psychological development of adults. Students analyze the biological, cognitive, and social-cultural contexts in which aging occurs and their influence on adult development. Spring semester, even years. Prerequisite PSY 261.
Provides an in-depth examination of the theory and research concerning interpersonal development in humans from infancy through adulthood. The relationships between cognition, language, and social development are highlighted. Spring semester, odd years. Prerequisite: PSY 260.
Assists students in the development of interviewing and communication skills, including responsive listening and problem solving, and introductory counseling techniques. Spring semester, odd years. Prerequisite: PSY 240.
Provides a foundation of the discipline of psychology. The history and development of psychological thought beginning with the Greeks and continuing through the present will be discussed. Spring semester, even years. Prerequisite: PSY 101.
Focuses on research methods and design as applied to contemporary problems in psychology. Examines how to perform experiments in learning, memory and problem solving; apply statistical methods for data analysis; and critically evaluate classical and current research. Course involves an independent research project. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: PSY 353 or instructor permission.
An examination of subjects or areas not included in other courses. Offered as needed. Prerequisites: PSY 101, junior or senior standing, and instructor permission.
This course is for students who desire to investigate a research problem in psychology or assist in faculty research. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: instructor permission.
This experiential learning opportunity focuses on exploring career interests, applying knowledge from the classroom, and developing practical on-the-job skills. Students are responsible for establishing their own internships. The internship may be taken for one, two, or three credit hours, with a minimum of 20 hours of supervised on-site work per credit hour. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: Cumulative GPA of at least 2.7 and instructor permission. Pass/fail only.
Prepares students for PSY 499 Senior Capstone. Students will be introduced to the requirements of the capstone experience, determine their topic, and develop a prospectus. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: Senior standing and instructor permission. Pass/fail only.
Students prepare a research thesis on a topic of interest to the student. The thesis is intended to demonstrate the student’s ability to synthesize and apply knowledge. Offered as needed. Prerequisites: Senior status and instructor permission. Pass/fail only.

The student is introduced to the field of physical therapy, its history, and the role physical therapy plays in the health care system. Basic medical abbreviations are taught and the standards of ethical practice are emphasized. The practice of physical therapy and laws, which regulate the physical therapist assistant, are discussed along with the American Physical Therapy Association’s structure and function. Strongly emphasized are the boundaries between the physical therapist and physical therapist assistant. Also discussed are common practice settings and patient types. Fall semesters. Prerequisites: For students whose first language is not English, a TOEFL score of 550 or greater and permission of instructor. Co-requisites: BIO 171, ENG 103, or permission of PTA program director.
Knowledge of functional anatomy and kinesiology are essential foundations for the PTA. In this course the skeletal, muscle, joint and nervous systems are studied in terms of their ability to produce movement and postural control. There is an emphasis on the biomechanics of the human body. Lecture and laboratory exercises are integrated to help the student learn how the body moves and then to apply that knowledge to physical therapy interventions. Fall semesters. Prerequisite: BIO 172 or permission of PTA program director.
Instruction in basic patient handling skills including patient transfers from and with a variety of patient equipment, gait training, wheelchair/bed mobility, and transfers training are included. Assistive devices are introduced and practiced using patient mobility and transfer skills. Body mechanics are taught and practiced with an emphasis on the safety of the patient and caregiver during patient activity. OSHA safety requirements and universal precaution procedures are presented. Architectural barriers and the ADA are highlighted and discussed. Issues regarding the quality, appropriateness, and clarity of documentation is presented and practiced with an emphasis on documenting functional activities. Fall semesters. Prerequisite: BIO 172. Co-requisite: PTA 200
Introduction in principles and techniques of range of motion, strengthening, soft-tissue stretching, aerobic exercise, endurance, and balance/coordination are studied. The basic concepts of peripheral joint mobilization and Myokinematic Restoration are examined. The healing process of the various tissues, ligaments, bones, cartilage, and muscles/tendons is reviewed. Theories of the body’s response to exercise in the normal and pathological states are examined. Fall semesters. Prerequisite: BIO 172. Co-requisite: PTA 200.
The knowledge of therapeutic management and rehabilitation is expanded with regard to common orthopedic injuries/conditions. Principles for treating soft tissue, bony, and post-surgical problems are emphasized. This includes the investigation of sprains, strains, surgical procedures, overuse syndromes, and fractures. Therapeutic management and rehabilitative intervention methods for the presented conditions/injuries in various stages of recovery are investigated joint by joint. Spring semesters. Prerequisites: PTA 200, PTA 210 and PTA 215.
Students learn the theory and application of the therapeutic thermal agents: superficial heat, cold, ultrasound (thermal and non-thermal), phonophoresis, fluidotherapy, and hydrotherapy, including aquatic therapy. The application of diathermy, infrared and kinesiotaping techniques are discussed. The pathologic and physiological processes, specific techniques, frequencies, and the effects of interventions are discussed. Application methods are learned with an emphasis on the indications, contraindications, and precautions for the selected forms of therapeutic thermal agents. The safe, effective, and efficient delivery of the physical thermal agents is considered, as well as patient and caregiver interactions. Fall semesters. Prerequisite: BIO 172. Co-requisite: PTA 200.
The student is presented with theories concerning the pathologic processes, the physiological responses to an intervention, and the application of the following agents: electrical current, mechanical lumbar/cervical traction, cold laser and external compression. Intervention methods are learned with emphasis on the safe, effective, and efficient deliveries of the physical agents. Consideration is given to the indications, contraindications, and precautions for these physical agents. Because an intervention requires human interaction, clinical lab activities emphasize the interaction between the clinician and the patient. Spring semesters. Prerequisite: PTA 215 or permission of PTA program director.
Examination of pathological gait deviations, the physical therapy management of the burn-injured patient, wound care management, chest physical therapy, amputee care, prosthetics, and orthotics for the upper and lower extremities are included. Anatomy, physiology, and pathology are discussed for each topic. Spring semesters. Prerequisites: HSC 260 and PTA 200 or permission of PTA program director.
The student is introduced to tests and measures commonly used in the practice of physical therapy including, goniometry, gross functional muscle testing: sensation, pain, vital signs, and anthropometric measurements. The comparison of examination with evaluation is emphasized as it relates to physical therapy practice. Fall semesters. Prerequisite: BIO 172. Co-requisite: PTA 200.
The student is oriented to clinical practice policies and procedures, professional practice in physical therapy and the Clinical Performance Instrument (version 2) used for evaluation of the student’s performance during clinical practice. Students are introduced to resources that will help the student understand and participate in the professional and evidence-based environment of physical therapy. Students engage in self-assessment activities throughout the course. Failure of the Clinical Preparation or Co-requisites /Prerequisites would prevent the student from participating in the Clinical Practice PTA 224. Fall semesters. Co-requisites: HSC 260, PTA 200, PTA 205, PTA 210, PTA 215, and PTA 220 or permission of PTA program director. Must be taken concurrently with PTA 224.
The student applies their novice physical therapy knowledge and skills (selected tests and measures, modalities, therapeutic exercise, and functional activities) under the close supervision of a qualified clinical instructor. One hundred sixty hours of clinical practice over a four week period are required. Clinical instructor (CI) and student review the performance objectives and students’ own learning objectives for the affiliation. The CI helps the student set objectives appropriate to the facility. Fall semesters. Must be taken concurrently with PTA 223.
Students are prepared for completion of the last two clinical practices and entry into the physical therapy workforce. Self-awareness, effective helping, communication skills, stress management, cultural competency, and spirituality are discussed as part of continuing exploration of the core professional values of the American Physical Therapy Association. Spring semesters. Prerequisite: PTA 224 or permission of PTA program director. Co-requisites: PTA 211, PTA 216, PTA 217, PTA 235, PTA 245, and PTA 250. Must be taken concurrently with PTA 290.
Therapeutic massage and patient handling skills are taught. The student is instructed in the basic principles and application of soft tissue massage techniques as part of an overall physical therapy intervention plan. Various basic local and general massage techniques are presented and practiced. General principles of massage for specialized systems and selected specific purposes are introduced. Spring semesters. Prerequisite: PTA 200.
Preparation of the PTA student to treat patients with pediatric and adult movement disorders caused by damage to the nervous system is included. Neuroanatomy, motor control, motor learning and motor development form the foundations for understanding the pathology and the interventions used for the patient with neurologic disorders. Case studies dealing with common pediatric and adult disorders help the student appreciate the effect of the disability on the individual’s life and provide an opportunity for the student to apply their clinical reasoning skills and physical therapy interventions. Spring semesters. Prerequisites: PTA 200 and PTA 210 or permission of instructor.
A comprehensive study in the area of physical therapy and aging is presented. Age related changes in biology, physiology, and anatomy are discussed. General information on theory and psychosocial aspects of aging is provided. Specific treatment considerations for the older person are outlined. Spring semesters. Prerequisite: HSC 260 or permission of instructor.
This is the initial two weeks of a five-week clinical affiliation. It allows students to apply their didactic and laboratory learning as an active participant in clinical practice. The student is expected to practice all the basic physical therapy data collection techniques and treatment interventions, and implement the plan of care as directed by the physical therapist. Eighty hours of clinical practice at an affiliated clinical site are required. Spring semesters. Prerequisite: Student must be assessed at the developing level or higher on the Professional Behaviors Assessment Tool or obtain permission of PTA program director. Must be taken concurrently with PTA 226.
The final three weeks of a five-week clinical affiliation provides further development of problem solving and interpersonal skills, and continues to the minimal competencies necessary to become an effective, efficient physical therapist assistant. At the conclusion of this affiliation, the student is expected to consistently provide quality care with simple or complex patients in a predictable environment. The student may require supervision or cueing when addressing complex problems, and may still be developing efficiency in delivering treatment plans. One hundred twenty hours of clinical practice at an affiliated clinical site are required. Summer semesters. Prerequisite: PTA 290. Must be taken concurrently with PTA 292.
This five-week, full-time clinical affiliation is the final clinical practice for the student. At the start of this affiliation, students will have completed 65% of their clinical hours and all of their academic coursework. The student is expected to practice all the basic physical therapy data collection techniques and treatment interventions and implement the plan of care as directed by the physical therapist. At the conclusion of this affiliation, the student is expected to perform at entry-level, consistently and efficiently providing quality care with simple or complex patients in a variety of clinical environments under the supervision of a physical therapist. The student requires no further guidance or supervision except when addressing new or complex problems, at which time the student seeks assistance. Two hundred hours of off-site clinical experience are required. Summer semesters. Must be taken concurrently with PTA 291.

Historical, theological, and literary consideration of both Hebrew and Christian scripture that addresses questions such as: What historical experiences are relevant to understanding the biblical narrative? What are the core theological claims and dominant themes of biblical literature? What are common misconceptions of biblical literature?. Fall and spring semesters.
Students attempt to understand a variety of the world’s religions through understanding the questions they seek to answer, the issues they seek to address, and their traditional beliefs, rituals, and cultural contributions. Fall semesters.
Spiritual wisdom and practices from the world’s primary religions are explored through guided reading, field trips and reflection through which students are introduced to the vocabulary, concepts, and spiritual disciplines necessary for the cultivation of kindness, love, joy, peace, vision, wisdom and generosity. Fall semesters.
Students will examine two interrelated issues, namely, the influences that religions have on women and the influences that women have on religions. Theology, texts and rituals in various religious traditions will be explored. Central questions will focus on gender politics in religion: Who owns the sacred places, rituals, and texts? Does the divine have gender – and why does it matter? Who has a voice? Spring semester, even years.
What is the purpose of my life? What does it mean to serve? What am I passionate about? Readings, discussions and community service participation aim to explore these questions and provide the opportunity for students to think deeply about their own vocational identity as servants and leaders. This course consists of two lectures (50 minutes each) per week and at least 15 hours of community service commitments per semester. Spring semesters.
Cross-listed with SOC 236. The primary learning experiences take place during a three-week trip to Tanzania in May. During the spring semester students meet weekly to discuss readings, prepare for being a guest in a foreign country, and plan fundraisers. The visit to Tanzania is at the invitation of the Eastern and Coastal Diocese of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in Tanzania. Students stay in host homes, learn about social concerns, and participate in the life of a community while serving at a secondary school. Nursing students spend one week at the national hospital. Spring semesters. Prerequisite: REL 230 or concurrent registration, and sophomore status and instructor permission
This course explores the spiritual discipline of service as working for the common good. Students identify a connection between their gifts and experience and a need in the community. They devise a project that leads others toward deeper awareness and participation in actions that benefit the local community. A combination of seminars and independent work on projects. Offered as needed.
This course gives students an opportunity for introductory exploration of an aspect of the field of religion not dealt with extensively in other religion courses. Topics may include Christianity in America and eastern religions. Offered as needed.
Cross-listed with NUR 309. Examines the spiritual foundations of church health ministries. Skills and knowledge specific to parish nursing are explored with topics to include the following: roles of the parish nurse, ethical/legal aspects of the role, professional standards, and personal spiritual growth. Also studies the legal and medical perspectives of such issues as abortion, euthanasia, behavior control, alternate health care modalities, and bioethical issues. The psychosocial-spiritual assessment of persons across the age continuum, loss/grief, end-of-life, and crisis is explored. Fall semesters.
How can I make a difference in the world? How do I know what the world needs? These questions will be addressed by examining spiritual foundations of peace-making, justice, and interdependence while building awareness of contemporary issues of injustice and appropriately compassionate responses. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: REL 230 or by instructor permission.
This experiential learning opportunity focuses on exploring career interests, applying knowledge from the classroom, and developing practical on-the-job skills. Students are responsible for establishing their own internships. The internship may be taken for one, two, or three credit hours, with a minimum of 20 hours of supervised on-site work per credit hour. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: Cumulative GPA of at least 2.7 and instructor permission. Pass/fail only.
The Hebrew response Hineini (“here I am”) occurs on fourteen occasions in the biblical narrative. Students will dig into these fourteen stories, discovering biblical foundations for vocation for discerning one’s place in the world. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: REL 200 or by instructor permission.
Readings from various spiritual traditions introduce students to a non-dualistic way of seeing themselves and the world. The wisdom traditions explored foster a vision that lives with paradox by seeking meaning in the absurd, healing within the suffering, peace within the chaos, and light within the darkness. Offered as needed. Prerequisite REL 205 or by instructor permission.
Cross-listed with PHL 460. Looks at the history of the self by exploring some pivotal thinkers in each epoch of Western history: the ancient, medieval, and modern. It then tries to understand what it means to be a self in contemporary society using postmodern thinkers as its background. Spring semester, odd years. Prerequisite: PHL 101 or PHL 212.
Prepares students for REL 499 Senior Capstone. Students will be introduced to the requirements of the capstone experience, determine their topic, and develop a prospectus. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: Senior standing and instructor permission. Pass/fail only.
Students prepare a research thesis on a topic of interest to the student. The thesis is intended to demonstrate the student’s ability to synthesize and apply knowledge. Offered as needed. Prerequisites: Senior status and instructor permission. Pass/fail only.

Provides a broad introduction to the field of sociology. Explores different understandings of society and their implications. Students learn to identify and compare major sociological perspectives, understand basic sociological concepts, and apply them to various situations. Fall and spring semesters.
Covers selected social problems facing today’s global society. Topics may include problems such as poverty, race relations, international tensions, population, and crime. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: None; SOC 101 recommended.
Explores issues of juvenile delinquency, factors contributing to delinquency, and societal and governmental attempts to prevent and control delinquent behavior. Fall semesters.
Course provides an introduction to the sociology of gender. Central themes include changes and continuities in gender roles within the U.S. and globally, the social processes that influence our lives and our gender identities, and the connections between gender, power, and inequality. Primary primary focus will be on the experiences of women in the global economic system. Spring semester, odd years. Prerequisite: SOC 101.
Cross-listed with REL 236. The primary learning experiences take place during a three-week trip to Tanzania in May. During the spring semester students meet weekly to discuss readings, prepare for being a guest in a foreign country, and plan fundraisers. The visit to Tanzania is at the invitation of the Eastern and Coastal Diocese of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in Tanzania. Students stay in host homes, learn about social concerns, and participate in the life of a community while serving at a secondary school. Nursing students spend one week at the national hospital. Spring semesters. Prerequisites: REL 230 or concurrent registration, and sophomore status and instructor permission.
Provides students an opportunity to gain an introductory level of understanding of major fields within sociology. Topics may include marriage and the family, social psychology, symbolic interaction, and deviance. Offered as needed.
Explanation of social behaviors that have been defined as “deviant’ by others in society. Particular emphasis will be placed on the social constructive processes surrounding deviance and deviant behavior including the social organization of deviant acts, lifestyles, relationships and careers, the process of acquiring a deviant identity, and managing deviant stigma. Fall semester, odd years.
Explores the diversity concept in the United States by tracing its origins, operations, and meanings. Encompasses but is not limited to an examination of the history, culture, institutions, values, and contributions of groups identified by race, gender, class, ethnicity, religious affiliations, and sexual orientation in contemporary America. Critical emphasis placed on social tensions associated with minority-majority status, terms of overt and covert social inclusion or exclusion, the ideal of individual equality in conditions of group-based inequality. Fall semesters.
Analyzes the nature, causes, and distribution of crime; societal factors in crime and delinquency; theoretical explanations of crime; and contemporary social responses. Spring semesters. Prerequisite: SOC 101 or instructor permission.
Examines the patterned, unequal distribution of wealth, power, and political rewards has on society. Theories and debates regarding social inequality and mobility, and their ramifications. Spring semester, odd years. Prerequisite: SOC 101 or SOC 154.
Provides an opportunity for in-depth exploration of an aspect of the field of sociology not dealt with extensively in other sociology courses. Topics may include social stratification, gender and society, social movements, globalization, or indigenous peoples. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: SOC 101.
Introduction to the methods of social inquiry. Students learn how to design and conduct research, and how to become critical consumers of it. An overview of the various research strategies in the social sciences is presented and students perform some preliminary research. Focuses on conceptual and applied dimensions of social research. Fall semesters. Prerequisite: MAT 140 or above.
Cross-listed with PSY 354. Designed to give students a broad overview of the statistical methods used in the social sciences. Topics include measures of central tendency, probability, hypothesis testing, and association between variables. Spring semesters. Prerequisites: MAT 145; PSY 353 or SOC 353; or instructor permission.
Investigates the impact of organizations in society. Addresses theoretical components of organizational sociology such as but not limited to the division of labor, social inequality impacted by organizations, policy, and power in organizations. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: SOC 101.
Introduction to the major social theorists and the fundamental concepts important to the development and continuation of the social sciences. Students develop a framework to address critical social and political issues and better understand the society in which we live. Fall semesters. Prerequisite: PLS 221 or PSY 101 or SOC 101.
This experiential learning opportunity focuses on exploring career interests, applying knowledge from the classroom, and developing practical on-the-job skills. Students are responsible for establishing their own internships. The internship may be taken for one, two, or three credit hours, with a minimum of 20 hours of supervised on-site work per credit hour. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: Cumulative GPA of at least 2.7 and instructor permission. Pass/fail only.
Investigates the prevalence of the legal system in society. Topics covered in the course will be the theoretical perspectives of law, the organization of law and the enactment of law and its practice. Spring semester, even years. Prerequisite: SOC 101.
Cross-listed with CRJ 471. Focuses on the theoretical basis for crime policy, the empirical work utilizing theory, and the efficacy of the policies. Also investigates how social policy is developed, amended and enacted. Spring semester, odd years. Prerequisites: CRJ 101 and SOC 290.
Prepares students for SOC 499 Senior Capstone. Students will be introduced to the requirements of the capstone experience, determine their topic, and develop a prospectus. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: Senior standing and instructor permission. Pass/fail only.
Students prepare a research thesis on a topic of interest to the student. The thesis is intended to demonstrate the student’s ability to synthesize and apply knowledge. Offered as needed. Prerequisites: Senior status and instructor permission. Pass/fail only.

Covers pronunciation, easy conversations, and basic grammar of the Spanish language. The emphasis is on basic patterns of language and vocabulary. Offered as needed.
Continuation of SPN 151 covering pronunciation, grammar, vocabulary, and written and oral communication. An overview of Spanish-speaking cultures is also presented. Offered as needed. Prerequisite: SPN 151 or equivalent.

The theme is centered around the Finnish word sisu. Students will also be introduced to academic expectations at the university level and effective strategies to smoothly transition to the Finlandia environment, both in and out of the classroom. Fall and spring semesters. Meets twice per week for seven weeks.
Helps students identify majors and occupations that are consistent with their interests, strengths, skills, values and personality. This course is a one-hour, partial-semester class which is awarded a pass/fail grade. Fall and Spring semesters.
These classes require study abroad at a cooperating institution. Students must have prior approval of the appropriate academic dean and the University Registrar. This is a temporary registration designation. Offered as needed.
Develops preparation skills necessary for a successful career. Students are introduced to a variety of topics including career goal assessment, job search strategies, effective résumé and cover letter writing, employment benefits information, interviewing techniques, graduate school opportunities, and job market analysis. Spring semesters.

Focuses on the physical fitness benefits of yoga. Although students may have some yoga or fitness experience, the only prerequisite is the desire to learn and a commitment to attend class. Meets twice per week for seven weeks. Offered as needed, half-semester. May be taken repeatedly for up to 3 credits. Pass/fail only.
Pilates combines moves from yoga, gymnastics, kickboxing, and body building to build strength and flexibility. The goal of these exercises is to improve strength, flexibility, and stability of the “core” muscles for overall better alignment and posture in its practicers. Offered as needed, half-semester. May be taken repeatedly for up to 3 credits. Pass/fail only.
Zumba is a cardio-dance workout fitness program that uses Latin-inspired dance routines and choreographed steps to form a fun fitness party atmosphere. No dance experience or skills are required. Meets twice a week for seven weeks. Offered as needed, half-semester. May be taken repeatedly for up to 3 credits. Pass/fail only.
Recognized as the ultimate calorie burning exercise, indoor rowing is a great way to achieve superb aerobic fitness and core strength. Students will learn proper rowing technique incorporated into workouts designed to work arms, legs, chest, back, abs—even your mind. You will sweat! Offered as needed, half-semester. May be taken repeatedly for up to 3 credits. Pass/fail only.
Learn the Korean martial art of Soo Bahk Do. Participants will practice kicking, hand strikes, self-defense, forms and light sparring in a safe and fun environment. Offered as needed, half-semester. May be taken repeatedly for up to 3 credits. Pass/fail only.
This course is an introduction to Spinning, also known as Indoor Group Cycling. Spinning is a full-body, low impact, aerobic exercise that can help strengthen the heart, lower blood pressure, boost energy, burn off excess fat, tone legs and stomach, reduce stress and tension, and boost peak performance. Offered as needed, half-semester. May be taken repeatedly for up to 3 credits. Pass/fail only.
This course focuses on enjoying and exploring local nature areas during winter. Snowshoes will be provided, but students must have appropriate outdoor clothing for winter excursions. Participation and enthusiasm are more important than skill. Spring semester, first-half. May be taken repeatedly for up to 3 credits. Pass/fail only.

 
Hancock, MI
(906) 482-5300 • 800-682-7604
admissions@finlandia.edu
