Florida Gulf Coast University official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://www.fgcu.edu/about/leadership/officeoftheprovost/core-syllabus-policy-statements
FGCU Privacy Policy
This website stores cookies on your computer to improve your browsing experience.
            The university does not collect personal information as you browse. Learn about our
            Privacy and GDPR statements.
Discover what’s unique about our campus and how to visit. Meet our leadership team,
                              and learn about our history, mission, values, accreditations, regulations and policies.
Start your path to an undergraduate or graduate degree by exploring programs taught
                              by world-class faculty. Find all the resources and support services to ensure your
                              academic success.
Apply for admission as an undergraduate or graduate student and access financial resources
                              to help you achieve your dreams. Get an early start through our Accelerated Collegiate
                              Experience.
Explore state-of-the-art residence halls, dining options, student organizations, health
                              services, campus recreation and other activities. Our service-learning program and
                              leadership opportunities will help you grow as a person.
FGCU is actively engaged with Southwest Florida through cultural activities, educational
                              programs and exciting athletics. We’re also home to WGCU Public Media.
See what’s available to enhance your FGCU experience. Find out what’s happening on
                              campus through our social media channels and other sources of news and information.

Academic Behavior Standards and Academic Dishonesty  
All students are expected to demonstrate honesty in their academic pursuits. The university
                        policies regarding issues of honesty can be found in the FGCU Student Guidebook under
                        the Student Code of Conduct and Policies and Procedures sections. All students are expected to study this document which outlines their responsibilities
                        and consequences for violations of the policy.  The FGCU Student Guidebook is available
                        online at https://www.fgcu.edu/studentlife/studentconduct/. 

University Nondiscrimination Statement 
Florida Gulf Coast University is committed to ensuring equity and fairness for all
                        University employees, students, visitors, vendors, contractors and other third parties.
                        As such, the University prohibits discrimination on the bases of race, color, national
                        origin, ethnicity, religion, age, disability, sex (including sexual harassment/assault),
                        gender identity/expression, marital status, sexual orientation, veteran status or
                        genetic predisposition with regard to admissions, employment, programs or other activities
                        operated by the University. This prohibition extends to enforcement of Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972. Questions or complaints should be directed to
                        the Office of Institutional Equity and Compliance (OIEC). The OIEC’s phone number
                        is (239)745-4366; the OIEC email address is OIEC@fgcu.edu. 

Statement of Free Expression
Florida Gulf Coast University vigorously protects freedom of inquiry and expression
                     and categorically expects civility and mutual respect to be practiced by faculty,
                     students and staff in all deliberations on its campus. As such, the FGCU Community
                     as well as the Florida Gulf Coast University Board of Trustees shares the commitment
                     of the State University System of Florida and the Florida Board of Governors to civil
                     discourse and endorses their commitment with this Statement of Free Expression. Approved
                     by Cabinet on May 11, 2022
The Board of Governor’s Statement of Free Expression: https://www.flbog.edu/2019/04/15/state-university-system-free-expression-statement/

Disability Accommodations Services 
Florida Gulf Coast University, in accordance with the Americans with Disabilities
                        Act and the university’s guiding principles, will provide classroom and academic accommodations
                        to students with documented disabilities. If you need to request an accommodation
                        in this class due to a disability, or you suspect that your academic performance is
                        affected by a disability, please see me or contact the Office of Adaptive Services.
                        The Office of Adaptive Services is located in the Student and Community Counseling
                        Center building. The phone number is 239-590-7956 and the email is adaptive@fgcu.edu.
                        In addition to classroom and campus accommodations, individuals with disabilities
                        are encouraged to create their personal emergency evacuation plan and FGCU is committed
                        to providing information on emergency notification procedures. You can find information
                        on the emergency exits and Areas of Rescue Assistance for each building, as well as
                        other emergency preparedness materials on the Environmental Health and Safety and
                        University Police Department websites. If you will need assistance in the event of
                        an emergency due to a disability, please contact Adaptive Services for available services
                        and information.

Student Observance of Religious Holidays 
All students at Florida Gulf Coast University have a right to expect that the University
                        will reasonably accommodate their religious observances, practices, and beliefs. 
                        Students, upon prior notification to their instructors, shall be excused from class
                        or other scheduled academic activity to observe a religious holy day of their faith.
                        Students shall be permitted a reasonable amount of time to make up the material or
                        activities covered in their absence. Students shall not be penalized due to absence
                        from class or other scheduled academic activity because of religious observances.
                        Where practicable, major examinations, major assignments, and University ceremonies
                        will not be scheduled on a major religious holy day. A student who is to be excused
                        from class for a religious observance is not required to provide a second party certification
                        of the reason for the absence. 

Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) 
Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) provides free counseling and therapy
                        services (including psychiatry) to all FGCU students. Please call CAPS at (239) 590-7950,
                        Monday through Friday between 8:30 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. to schedule an initial contact
                        appointment.  Visit the CAPS website at https://www.fgcu.edu/studentlife/healthandsafety/caps/ for more information. CAPS offers a 24/7 crisis line at (239) 745-3277 (EARS).

Generative AI
Generative artificial intelligence (generative AI) refers to artificial intelligence
                     techniques and models that generate or create new outputs based on a particular input
                     dataset. Examples of generative AI tools include, but are not limited to ChatGPT,
                     GPT-4, Bard, Claude, and AlphaCode. Students in this course may use generative AI
                     tools only with explicit permission to do so for specific course assignments and activities.
                     If explicit permission to use generative AI is not given on an assignment or course
                     activity, it is not permitted. When permission is given by the instructor, students
                     should pay close attention to the guidelines specified by the instructor as to how
                     generative AI may or may not be used. 

If generative AI is used with the instructor’s permission on a course assignment or
                     activity, then the content produced by generative AI must be cited in the manner approved
                     by the instructor.
Using generative AI without permission from the instructor or in ways not explicitly
                     permitted by the instructor, or failing to properly cite material created by generative
                     AI, falls under the university’s Student Code of Conduct’s academic integrity policy. 

Resources for Faculty General Education 
Information on General Education program requirements is available online at https://www.fgcu.edu/academics/undergraduatestudies/generaleducation/.   

Service-Learning 
Information on integrating service-learning into the course and course syllabus is
                        available online at https://www.fgcu.edu/studentlife/servicelearning/.  

Distance-Learning 
Information on distance learning courses is available online at https://www.fgcu.edu/online/. 

Technology Support 
Information to assist students is available online at https://www.fgcu.edu/its/students/.   

Library Resources 
Main page: https://library.fgcu.edu/ 
Tutorials: https://library.fgcu.edu/tutorials/ 
Research Guides: https://library.fgcu.edu/guides 
Contact Us: https://library.fgcu.edu/askus 

Web-Enabled Proctoring  
In order to protect the integrity of online assessments, this course may employ web-enabled
                        proctoring technology that will allow for the web-enabled monitoring of exams and
                        quizzes and/or temporary restriction to a designated online testing website, disabling
                        the ability to print, copy, access other applications or move to any other URL for
                        the duration of the assessment. Students must own a computer device and an associated
                        webcam that meet the minimum requirements of the University’s standard remote monitoring
                        system.
Additional information:   
Instructor Recordings of Courses 
This course may employ technology that will allow for audio and/or video recording
                        of live class sessions. Class recordings may be made in a physical classroom using
                        webcams or classroom cameras and microphones, as well as in online classes delivered
                        via Canvas BigBlueButton, MS Teams, or Zoom. This recording technology should be utilized
                        for the sole purpose of enhancing student learning. It may provide for supplemental
                        student instruction via secure links to recorded session(s), the live stream of courses,
                        presentations of off-site guest speakers and/or the delivery of course instruction
                        utilizing “flipped classroom” methodologies. Student questions and/or comments may
                        be included as a part of any session being recorded.

Plagiarism Detection Services 
Students agree that by taking this course all required papers may be subject to submission
                        for textual similarity review to Turnitin.com or other plagiarism detection services
                        (directly or via a learning management system, i.e. Canvas) for the detection of plagiarism.
                        Turnitin generates a report on the originality of your writing by comparing it with
                        a database of periodicals, books, online content, students' papers, and other published
                        work. All submitted papers will be included as source documents in the Turnitin.com
                        reference database solely for the purpose of detecting plagiarism of such papers.
                        The use of the Turnitin.com service is subject to the Usage Policy posted on the Turnitin.com
                        site.

Student Recordings of Courses
Consistent with Legislation effective as of July 1, 2021, a student may, without prior notice, record (video or audio) a faculty lecture for the
                        limited purpose of 1) personal educational use, 2) for use in a complaint against
                        the institution, or 3) for use as evidence in a civil or criminal proceeding. Recordings
                        for any other purpose (except as a permitted accommodation) are not permitted. Recordings
                        that are accomplished in such a way as to cause disruption to the learning environment
                        can be prohibited. Such a recorded lecture may not be made public to a third party
                        (i.e. publish) without the faculty member’s prior, written consent. Moreover, students
                        are expressly prohibited from recording any other student in such a manner that personally
                        identifies the student. Some negligible/inconsequential recording of a student’s voice
                        as a by-product of recording will not be deemed a violation of a permitted recording.


Last Updated August 1, 2023 (Generative AI)


