Gannon University official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://edge.gannon.edu/what-you-need-to-know-about-artificial-intelligence-vs-the-education-system/
Welcome to Edge! We are a student-run media organization on Gannon's campus. We hope you enjoy!
Gannon University is preparing its students for the future job market. The pace of technology advancement is rapidly expanding, hence accelerating the need to elevate the education system. Embedded in Gannon’s liberal arts education, the faculty and staff are preparing Golden Knights to develop essential skills in logical reasoning, innovation, effective communication and critical thinking, that will help them succeed in the increasingly technological world.
At Gannon University, we tackle the following question in all academic disciplines: How might a student use technology to innovate smart solutions for their community and adapt to modern work environment? Last semester in my Foundation of Academic Writing class, I completed an extensive research and wrote about Artificial Intelligence. In this article, I will explain this cutting-edge technology by introducing its types and fascinating applications in our daily life, then finally challenge the long-run debatable question: Will Artificial Intelligence take over the world or not?
 It is likely that the jobs we have today are not the same jobs that will exist in the next decade. Artificial Intelligence is one of the cutting-edge technologies that humans are using to revolutionize fields like health care, legal practice, business, marketing and the economic sector.
According to the Oxford Dictionary, AI is defined as the theory and development of computer systems able to perform tasks normally requiring human intelligence, such as visual perception, speech recognition and decision-making. AI can make predictions and diagnose a patient. Its uniqueness is how fast and efficiently it functions compared to humans. Currently, AI has been able to accomplish the science of mimicking human behaviors with the creation of robots and machines that are being used in a wide range of fields. I will discuss the fascinating work that AI has accomplished so far after introducing its types.
Types of AI
Scientists have classified Artificial Intelligence into three different types:
Applications of AI
While the last two types of Artificial Intelligence are far ahead from reality, let’s examine the magic that weak Artificial Intelligence is already performing in today’s world. 
From interacting with a virtual machine doctor to navigating a new city with just your smartphone Google map, the applications of AI have covered various domains in the market. I have compiled the top seven applications of AI in modern technology. 
Now that we are familiar with how Artificial Intelligence is revolutionizing the technological world, where do you stand on the debate of whether AI is a threat to humankind or not? Is it possible that one day AI might take over our lives? 
As AI is branching out into every aspect of our lives, it is no surprise that the job market will look different in the future. While AI systems may become highly advanced and autonomous, there is no evidence currently that robots and machines will take over the world. They will always be guided by the instructions and limitations set by their human creators. Overall, the truth remains that AI is a tool controlled by humans to enhance productivity but never replace them.
That being said, with the right tools and skills, Gannon University graduates are integrating technology in their workplaces to take the lead in innovation and ethically leveraging Artificial Intelligence.
Check out this video about the Gannon Applied Intelligence program:
By: Carine Munezero Uwase

                  My name is Carine Munezero Uwase, I am from Rwanda. I am currently majoring in computer science and software engineering with a minor in Innovation and creativity at Gannon University. I am interested in everything related to modern technology and my career goal is to work as a product manager at a big tech company. 

Apart from working as an integrated marketing influencer, I am actively involved on campus. I am a student leader of campus ministry; I lead 'smoothing the soul' a meditation group; I was elected to become a class representative in Student Government Association. I am also on the school Advising committee of Technology .

Working for edge Magazine has been an awesome experience so far and I am excited to leverage all the opportunities it offers. It is always rewarding to create engaging contents for our audience. My goal is show you the authentic student experience here at Gannon.              
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 


Gannon University 2023
