Golden Gate University official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://catalog.ggu.edu/content.php?catoid=11&navoid=559
Javascript is currently not supported, or is disabled by this browser. Please enable Javascript for full functionality.

536 Mission St. San Francisco, CA 94105
1-415-442-7800 | info@ggu.edu


Privacy Policy | © 2024 Golden Gate University

Golden Gate University encourages students to attend and participate in the class meetings for their courses. Active participation and engagement with course materials, instructors, and other students enhances the learning experience. The course section’s syllabus will inform students of the implications of failing to attend class meetings and the requirements for attendance that must be met in order for students to earn passing grades.
Students who never begin attending in-person classes or participating in online courses, and whose absences are not approved by their instructors, may be administratively dropped from those courses. See Unofficial Withdrawal  for more information. 
When students stop attending classes after the “Last Day to Drop Course Without Tuition Charge” as published in the Academic Calendar, and do not withdraw from those courses by the “Last Day to Withdraw from Course” as published in the Academic Calendar, their instructors will calculate their last dates of attendance and report them to the Registrar’s Office. See the Last Date of Attendance (LDA)  policy for more information.
Federal Student Aid, VA Education Benefits and F-1/J-1 Student Visa Programs all have attendance requirements, the consequences of which are described below:
Golden Gate University subscribes to principles of fairness of academic decisions and record keeping. It is the student’s responsibility to view their attendance records regularly to verify their accuracy and completeness.  Attendance records can be viewed through the Self-Service resource found in the myGGU portal.  
If the student believes their attendance was recorded in error, or that their last date of attendance (LDA) was recorded in error, the student should contact the course instructor as soon as the error is detected. It is hoped that a satisfactory resolution can be reached through meaningful and respectful dialog between the student and faculty member.  
However, if a satisfactory resolution cannot be achieved, a student may file an attendance grievance using the attendance grievance form. Grievance forms must be submitted prior to the end of the term following the term for which the attendance records in question were recorded. Students who fail to begin the resolution process by this deadline forfeit their right to submit attendance grievances. 
Attendance grievance forms are forwarded to the appropriate school’s administrator for review. The Office of Academic Affairs will communicate the committee’s decision to the student within 20 working days of receipt. If the school’s administrator determines the student’s attendance was recorded incorrectly, the Registrar’s Office will update the student’s record accordingly.  
The school administrator’s decision is final and is not subject to further appeal.
Students are required to achieve and maintain “good” academic standing as they progress toward completion of their degree or certificate programs. Students are evaluated for academic standing following each 15-week academic period. Students who are not in good academic standing will be placed on academic probation, and may eventually be academically disqualified from the university, under the standards described below.
To maintain “good” academic standing and to be conferred a degree or to be awarded a certificate, undergraduate students are required to achieve a minimum 2.00 (“C” average) cumulative grade-point average (GPA) in all courses taken at Golden Gate University.
Undergraduate students whose GPAs fall below the minimum GPA requirement stated above will be placed on academic probation. However, students whose GPAs fall below 1.00 in either of their first two terms will be automatically academically disqualified and will not have the option of a probationary period. The probation period will be the lesser of 12 units or the units remaining for completion of their academic programs, during which time students must achieve the minimum required 2.00 cumulative GPA. Students who are on academic probation must consult with their academic advisors and receive approval of their courses prior to registering each academic period. Students will be officially removed from probation status after the completion of the trimester term in which they achieve the minimum required GPA.
Undergraduate students who receive failing grades two times for the same courses that are required for their programs will be automatically disqualified. In addition, students who are on academic probation who fail to meet the Good Academic Standing standards by the end of their probation periods (measured in units) and conditionally admitted students who fail to meet the conditions of their admission within their conditional periods (measured in units) will be academically disqualified. Students may appeal the decision to the dean of the School of Undergraduate Studies. See Academic Disqualification Appeal Process below for more information.
Disqualified students are restricted from enrolling in any courses at Golden Gate University unless their appeals are approved or they are readmitted to the university. To be considered for readmission, disqualified students must apply for admission after a period of time in which significant achievement and/or resolution of difficulties indicate a change in the conditions that contributed to their initial disqualification. One year is the minimum time period usually required for such a change in conditions. Students will be notified at the time of their disqualification of their minimum required waiting periods before they may apply for readmission. Applicants for readmission must satisfy the admission and degree requirements in effect for their programs at the time readmission. See Readmission of Former Students  for more information.
Undergraduate students who wish to appeal their disqualification to the dean must submit a Disqualification Appeal form via GGU4YOU, within 45 working days after the end of the specific term resulting in the disqualification. The dean will review the disqualification appeal and render a decision within 10 working days of receiving the appeal. Students whose disqualification appeals are granted may enroll in courses for the trimester term that begins immediately after the date their appeals are granted.
Fast-track Disqualification Appeal: Students who wish to appeal their disqualification immediately after notification must submit a Disqualification Appeal form via GGU4YOU to the dean, within 10 working days after receiving the notice of the disqualification. The dean (or appropriate assistant or associate dean) and the program director will review fast-track disqualification appeals and render decisions within 5 working days of receiving appeals. Students whose fast-track disqualification appeals are granted may enroll in courses for the trimester term that begins when their appeals are granted. Students should be aware that their preferred courses, particularly those with waitlists, may no longer be available for enrollment at the time their appeals are approved. Students whose fast-track disqualification appeals are denied may still elect to appeal through the normal disqualification appeal process.
To maintain “good” academic standing and to be conferred a degree or to be awarded a certificate, graduate students are required to achieve a minimum 3.00 (“B” average) cumulative grade-point average (GPA) in their academic programs. Students’ program GPAs are calculated using all courses taken at GGU that are applicable to their academic program requirements, including: prerequisite courses, proficiency courses, foundation courses, undergraduate courses taken to satisfy graduate program foundation requirements, required courses, and elective courses. Coursework that is completed at other institutions or at GGU prior to completing an undergraduate degree may be used to satisfy graduate program requirements, but this coursework will not be used in calculating students’ program GPAs, with the exception of designated Pathway Programs  coursework, which may be used to satisfy both undergraduate and graduate degree requirements for certain academic programs.
In addition to achieving an overall minimum 3.00 GPA, graduate students must earn a grade of “C-” or better grade for courses to be used to satisfy their program requirements. Students may repeat required courses or repeat/replace elective courses with other elective courses to raise their program GPAs to meet the minimum GPA requirement. However, prior to completion of the repeat or replacement courses, the original course grades will continue to be included in their program GPA calculations. Consequently, students may be placed on academic probation until they raise their program GPAs, as described below. Regardless of whether students repeat courses or replace them with different courses in their program GPA calculations, their original courses and grades will continue to appear on their academic transcripts.
Graduate students whose GPAs fall below the minimum GPA requirement stated above will be placed on academic probation. However, students whose GPAs fall below 1.00 in either of their first two terms will be automatically academically disqualified and will not have the option of a probationary period. The probation period will be the lesser of nine units, or the units remaining for completion of their academic programs, during which time students must achieve the minimum required GPA. Alternatively, students may create probation plans that reasonably ensure they will achieve the minimum required GPA. Student-created plans must be approved by their program directors and the dean within 30 days of being placed on academic probation. Students who are on academic probation must consult with their academic advisors and receive approval of their courses prior to registering each academic period. Students will be officially removed from probation status after the completion of the trimester term in which they achieve the minimum required GPA.
Graduate students who are on academic probation who fail to meet the Good Academic Standing standards by the end of their probation periods (measured in units) and conditionally admitted students who fail to meet the conditions of their admission within their conditional periods (measured in units) and students who are automatically disqualified without a probation period will be academically disqualified. Students may appeal the decision to the dean of the academic programs from which they were disqualified. See Academic Disqualification Appeal Process below for more information.
Disqualified students are restricted from enrolling in any courses at Golden Gate University unless their appeals are approved or they are readmitted to the university. Disqualified graduate students may not enroll in courses as auditors, certificate-seeking, or as open enrollment status students. Disqualified graduate students may apply for admission to undergraduate programs and, if admitted, enroll in undergraduate-level courses.
To be considered for readmission, disqualified students must apply for admission after a period of time in which significant achievement and/or resolution of difficulties indicate a change in the conditions that contributed to their initial disqualification. One year is the minimum time period usually required for such a change in conditions. Students will be notified at the time of their disqualification of their minimum required waiting periods before they may apply for readmission. Applicants for readmission must satisfy the admission and degree requirements in effect for their programs at the time readmission. See Readmission of Former Students  for more information.
Graduate students who wish to appeal their disqualification to the dean must submit a Disqualification Appeal form via GGU4YOU, within 45 working days after the end of the specific term that resulted in their disqualification. The dean will review the disqualification appeal and render a decision within 10 working days of receiving the appeal. Students whose disqualification appeals are granted may enroll in courses for the trimester term that begins immediately after the date their appeals are granted.
Fast-track Disqualification Appeal: Students who wish to appeal their disqualification immediately after notification must submit a Disqualification Appeal form via GGU4YOU to the dean, within 10 working days after receiving the notice of the disqualification. The dean (or appropriate assistant or associate dean) and the program director will review fast-track disqualification appeals and render decisions within 5 working days of receiving appeals. Students whose fast-track disqualification appeals are granted may enroll in courses for the trimester term that begins when their appeals are granted. Students should be aware that their preferred courses, particularly those with waitlists, may no longer be available for enrollment at the time their appeals are approved. Students whose fast-track disqualification appeals are denied may still elect to appeal through the normal disqualification appeal process.
To maintain “good” academic standing and to be conferred a degree, doctoral students are required to achieve a minimum 3.00 (“B” average) cumulative grade-point average (GPA) in the doctoral program. Students’ program GPAs are calculated using all courses taken at GGU to fulfill the doctoral degree program requirements, including: doctoral foundation program courses and undergraduate courses taken to satisfy doctoral course prerequisites. Coursework used to fulfill proficiency requirements will not be included in the programmatic GPA unless the student completes the courses after seeking admission to or being admitted to the DBA program.
In addition to achieving an overall minimum 3.00 GPA, doctoral students must earn a grade of “B-” or better grade in order for courses to be used to satisfy the program’s requirements. Students may repeat courses or complete extra elective courses if needed to raise their program GPAs to meet the minimum GPA requirement.
Doctoral students whose GPAs fall below the minimum GPA requirement stated above will be placed on academic probation. The probation period will be the lesser of eight units, or the units remaining for degree completion, during which time the student must achieve the minimum required GPA. Students who are on academic probation must consult with the director of the doctoral program and receive approval of their courses prior to registering each academic period. Students will be officially removed from probation status after the trimester term in which they achieve the minimum required GPA.
Doctoral students on academic probation who fail to meet the Good Academic Standing standards by the end of their probation periods (measured in units) and conditionally admitted students who fail to meet the conditions of their admission within their conditional periods (measured in units) will be academically disqualified. Students may appeal the decision to the dean of the doctoral program. See Academic Disqualification Appeal Process below for more information.
Disqualified students are restricted from enrolling in any courses at Golden Gate University unless their appeals are approved or they are readmitted to the university. To be considered for readmission, a disqualified student must apply for admission after a period of time in which significant achievement and/or resolution of difficulties indicate a change in the conditions that contributed to the student’s initial disqualification. One year is the minimum time period usually required for such a change in conditions. Students will be notified at the time of their disqualification of their minimum required waiting period before they may apply for readmission. Applicants for readmission must satisfy the admission and degree requirements in effect for their programs at the time readmission. See Readmission of Former Students  for more information.
Doctoral students who wish to appeal their disqualification to the dean must submit a Disqualification Appeal form via GGU4YOU, within 45 working days after the end of the specific term resulting in the disqualification. The dean will review the disqualification appeal and render a decision within 10 working days of receiving the appeal. Students whose disqualification appeals are granted may enroll in courses for the trimester term that begins immediately after the date their appeals are granted.
Open enrollment status students are required to maintain “good” academic standing to register for courses and to remain enrolled. Evidence of good academic standing for an undergraduate student is a minimum 2.00 cumulative grade point average, and for a graduate student is a minimum 3.00 cumulative grade point average. Open enrollment students who do not meet this requirement are not permitted to register and will be dis-enrolled in the event that ineligibility is determined after the term begins. See the Admission policies pertaining to Open Enrollment Status  for more information.
Required academic progress for students who were conditionally admitted or who were placed on academic probation includes the achievement of a minimally acceptable grade point average (GPA) and completion of attempted units within their conditional periods (measured in units) or by the end of their probation periods (measured in units). In addition, these students are not permitted to make the Credit/No Credit Grade Election .
Students who are on academic probation may apply for a change of program. If the dean of the school of the requested program approves the change of program, the student must still achieve the minimally acceptable grade point average by the end of the probation period (measured in units). See the Academic Standing standards for the applicable academic level above for more information.
Academic standing inquiries should be directed to your academic advisor. You may also contact the Office of Academic Affairs, Golden Gate University, 536 Mission Street, San Francisco, CA 94105-2968; telephone 415-442-6569.
When students’ degrees are conferred, their cumulative GPAs and unit calculations are recorded on their transcripts along with the degree information. Students’ cumulative GPA and unit calculations restart from zero if they complete additional coursework after their degrees are conferred. Thus GGU will reapply courses from previous graduate and undergraduate academic programs toward satisfying the credit and course requirements of additional graduate-level academic programs, if applicable, but this coursework will not be used in calculating students’ program GPAs for subsequent academic programs, with the exception of designated Pathway Programs  coursework, which may be used to satisfy both undergraduate and graduate-level degree requirements for certain academic programs.
Golden Gate University reserves the right to suspend or dismiss a student for violation of its policies or regulations or for conduct inimical to the best interest of the University or to other students in attendance. See Other Standards and Policies  for additional information.
Golden Gate University is committed to preparing students to lead and serve and to creating an academic community that values both individual and collaborative efforts that promote learning. The University aims to cultivate a community based on trust, academic integrity and honor. Specifically, Golden Gate University seeks to accomplish the following:
The following policy applies to all students taking classes in the Schools of Business, Taxation, Accounting, and Undergraduate Studies regardless of location or course format.
Academic misconduct is the failure to maintain academic integrity. Academic misconduct includes but is not limited to:
Plagiarism:
	In any written work, including but not limited to submitted papers, discussion postings in online work, presentations, and examination answers:
Copying all or part of another person’s written work without proper citation or attribution.
Representing as one’s own specific phrases, sentences, paragraphs, or the specific substance of another person’s work without giving appropriate credit.
Paraphrasing another person’s original ideas, theories, explanations, examples, models, principles, research issues and strategies, cases, conclusions, etc. without proper attribution.
Representing as one’s own another person’s computer programs, web content or designs, graphic or artistic works, mathematical or scientific solutions, charts, tables, figures, or illustrations in any medium
Unauthorized Use of Generative Artificial Intelligence (AI): 
Unless allowed by the instructor as specified in the course syllabus or in writing, the use of generative artificial intelligence (AI) tools/apps (e.g., ChatGPT, GPT-3, and DALL-E, among others) to produce content or student work products (e.g., answers to quizzes, tests or examinations, discussion board posts, essays, research papers, projects, or any other assignment) is academic misconduct and is expressly prohibited. 
This list is not exhaustive, and the University reserves the right to determine in a given instance what action constitutes a violation of academic integrity.
Any student, faculty member, or University employee who observes, discovers or has a good faith belief about the occurrence of academic misconduct must notify the faculty member responsible for the course in which the alleged misconduct occurred, or a dean or other administrator who will in turn notify the responsible faculty member.
​When a faculty member responsible for a course has reason to believe that there has been an incident of academic misconduct, the faculty member shall:
A copy of this notification shall be sent to the following:
If a student is found responsible for violating the Academic Integrity Policy, a conduct file will be created for the student and will include supporting documentation as well as the final determination. Students found responsible for violating the Academic Integrity Policy could have notations made on their transcript regarding these violations and the sanctions imposed.
Investigations into allegations of academic dishonesty will take place regardless of a student’s status at the University or in a particular class.  If found responsible for a violation, academic and administrative sanctions may be imposed even if a student dropped or withdrew from the course or withdrew from the university.
Sanctions are the consequences imposed on the student for acts of academic misconduct. There are two kinds of sanctions: academic sanctions and administrative sanctions. Either one or both types may be imposed for any act of academic misconduct.
In addition to imposing academic sanctions, the University may impose administrative sanctions.
A student may appeal a finding of misconduct and the academic and administrative sanctions imposed within 5 business days of the sending of the notification. Appeals must be filed in writing submitting the Academic Integrity Sanction Appeal form via GGU4YOU. Academic and Administrative sanction appeals will be evaluated, and a decision will be made within 5 business days of receipt of student appeal.  

The dean of the school in which the violation occurred will evaluate all documentation provided to the review committee and determine whether to uphold the finding of misconduct.  If the misconduct finding is upheld, the dean of the school in which the violation occurred will determine whether the academic and administrative sanctions are appropriate for the severity of the misconduct.  The dean of the school in which the violation occurred will communicate such ruling to the student in writing within 5 business days of receipt of the student’s appeal. The student shall have no further appeal rights.
Unless noted otherwise above, all written or spoken communications between the student and the faculty member and the student and University administration will be disclosed only as (1) reasonably necessary to investigate the allegations of academic dishonesty, (2) required to report the allegations of academic dishonesty to the University and student, (3) appropriate in any subsequent disciplinary proceedings or legal actions, (4) reasonably necessary in the ordinary business of advising students and administering courses, and/or (5) required by law or court order.
