Grand Valley State University official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://www.gvsu.edu/writing/first-year-writing-policies-81.htm
Although each instructor designs assignments, delivers course material, and determines deadlines independently, there are certain policies that are universal across all first-year writing classes at Grand Valley. A description of those policies can be found below:
You must pass WRT 150 or WRT 130 with a grade of C or better (above C–) to satisfy the University's General Education Foundations-Writing Requirement. If you do not receive a grade of C or better, you will need to take WRT 150 or WRT 130 again.
In order to submit your final portfolio, you must have completed the following by the end of Week 11 for classes offered in the fall and winter semesters, and by the end of Week 8 for classes offered in the 12-week spring/summer session:
If you have not met this milestone, your instructor will inform you that you are no longer eligible to pass your FYW class, and any future work you submit (including your final portfolio) will not be graded.
If you have any special needs because of learning, physical, or any other disabilities, please contact Disability Support Resources at (616) 331-2490. Any student needing academic accommodations beyond those given to the entire class needs to request assistance from DSR. Writing faculty work with DSR to accommodate students’ special needs and devise a plan that is fair to all students. Furthermore, if you have a disability and think you will need assistance evacuating a classroom and/or building in an emergency situation, please make your teacher and DSR aware so that Grand Valley can develop a plan to assist you.
Regular, timely, and full attendance is necessary to succeed in first-year writing classes. We require students to miss no more than the equivalent of two weeks of classes because missing more will make it difficult for you to complete the work of the course successfully. Your instructor may also establish specific attendance expectations, which will be communicated in the course syllabus.
We understand that life events (illness, family emergency, etc.) may make attendance challenging for short periods of time. If you find yourself in a situation where you will not be able to attend class, please reach out to your instructor to let them know about the situation and discuss ways for you to stay on track in the course.
Updated for Winter 2024 semester
We have identified specific milestones throughout the semester to help you mark your progress and complete your first-year writing course(s). After each milestone below, you’ll see the minimum expectation we have for your attendance and course work, as well as the options you’ll have if you do not meet those milestones. Your instructor may identify additional expectations, so we encourage you to review your course syllabus and material posted on Blackboard carefully.
If you find you are not meeting the course milestones, we strongly recommend that you reach out to your instructor as early as possible to let them know you are experiencing difficulty. Your instructor will work with you to make a plan to help you get back on track in your class and connect you with campus resources for additional support.
WEEK 4 MILESTONE
By the end of Week 4,  you should have:
If you have not met this milestone, your instructor will recommend that you withdraw from the course before the 75% tuition refund deadline at the end of Week 4. Before withdrawing from any course, we encourage you to:
If you have partially met this milestone (i.e., you have missed more than 1 week of class OR you have not submitted at least 70% of the assigned work for the course), your instructor will contact you to schedule a meeting to discuss the possibility of making up missed work.
 
WEEK 7 MILESTONE (MIDTERMS)
By the end of Week 7, you should have:
If you have not met or have partially met this milestone, your instructor will recommend that you withdraw from the course. Before withdrawing from any course, we encourage you to:
If you have not met or have partially met this milestone but choose to remain in the class, you will be responsible for the following to remain eligible to pass the class:
 
WEEK 11 MILESTONE
By the end of Week 11, you should have: 
If you have not met this milestone, your instructor will inform you that you are no longer eligible to pass your FYW class, and any future work you submit (including your final portfolio) will not be graded. Your instructor will recommend that you withdraw from the course. Before withdrawing from any course, we encourage you to:
 
First-year writing courses at Grand Valley State University teach students important writing, information literacy, and critical thinking skills that lay a foundation for the writing students will do as university students and in their professions. However, the introduction of ChatGPT and other generative artificial intelligence (GenAI) tools create interesting challenges and learning opportunities for students as they build their writing skills. 
While the future of GenAI suggests there will be exciting opportunities and developments, currently much of the material these tools create may be inaccurate, outdated, biased, or otherwise problematic. Moreover, relying too heavily on GenAI tools during the writing process may stifle your own independent thinking, creativity, and growth as a writer. 
In FYW courses, you may not submit any work generated by an AI program as your own without properly citing it. Additionally, you are not permitted to submit an entire paper/project that has been wholly generated by AI tools for a grade. If your instructor is concerned that your work includes uncited material from an AI tool, they will follow the procedure for addressing plagiarism as outlined in the FYW plagiarism policy.
If you use GenAI in a first-year writing course, we recommend that you follow these guidelines:
According to the GVSU’s Student Code: The Statement of Students’ Rights and Responsibilities, plagiarism is defined as the appropriation of, buying, receiving as a gift, or obtaining by any means material that is attributable in whole or in part to another source without any indication or citation of the original source, including words, sentences, ideas, illustrations, structure, computer code, and other expression or media, and presenting that material as one’s own academic work being offered for credit or in conjunction with a program, course, or degree requirements” (Student Code, Section 5.1.5). 

Because academic honesty is highly valued by the university, faculty are required to report instances when students commit acts of academic dishonesty such as plagiarism or submitting work for this class that was completed in another class without discussing it with your professor before submission.  If your professor suspects that you have submitted plagiarized work, he/she/they will contact you to discuss their concerns with you in person. If your professor determines that you have plagiarized some or part of an essay draft, he/she/they may report the case to the Office of Student Conduct and Conflict Resolution (OSCCR) with the recommendation that you must re-write the draft. If it is determined that you have plagiarized some or part of an essay that you submit in your final portfolio, your professor will report the case to the OSCCR with the recommendation that you fail the class. In that case, you will be given a temporary “Incomplete” grade for the semester until a final resolution is reached by the OSCCR.
If for any reason you need to appeal your final grade, please consult the Student Code for the applicable procedures. Your first contact should be with the teacher of your class. After you have spoken with your instructor, if you still wish to appeal your grade, please compose a message requesting a departmental review of your portfolio. Your request should do the following:
Appeals should be sent to the Director of First-Year Writing at [email protected] or delivered to the Department of Writing directed to the attention of the Director of First-Year Writing.
Once your appeal request is received, you will receive confirmation that the appeal process is underway. The Director of First-Year Writing will review your portfolio and, if necessary, ask another first-year writing instructor to review the portfolio. Once a decision about your request is made, you will be notified via email, usually within one month of the date your request was received. 


Department of Writing

326 Lake Ontario Hall, 1 Campus Drive

Allendale,
												
													Michigan
49401




Amy Ferdinandt Stolley,  Department Chair



(616) 331-8031



stolleam@gvsu.edu



Dawn Nagelkirk, Department Coordinator



(616) 331-3411





(616) 331-3545

													
														(Fax)
													
												

nagelkid@gvsu.edu



										M-F 9 a.m.-5 p.m.
											







https://www.facebook.com/pages/Grand-Valley-State-University-Writing-Department/56508751097






https://www.instagram.com/gvwritingdept/






https://www.linkedin.com/company/gvsuwrtdept/






https://twitter.com/GVSUWritingDept






https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCovXFz0JRCSEDbnnJ6AFVmQ


