Indiana University of Pennsylvania official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://www.iup.edu/pse/index.html
Top-notch education program for pre-service and in-service educators and administrators. Graduates have found employment with school districts throughout the United States.
BSEd Business Education
BSEd Early Childhood/Special Education
BSEd Early Childhood Education
BSEd, Family and Consumer Sciences Education
Human Development and Family Science, BS
Minor in Child Development and Family Relations
Certificate in Infant and Toddler Development
Certificate in Preschool Education
Certificate in Urban Education
The master's and doctoral programs are designed to help busy teachers and principals upgrade their credential and pay scale.
MEd in Education
MA in Instructional Design and Learning Technologies
MEd in Literacy and/or Reading Specialist Certification
DEd Administration and Leadership Studies
DEd Curriculum and Instruction
Business, Computer, and Information Technology Certification
Principal Certification
Superintendent Letter of Eligibility, Post-Master’s Certificate
TheBill and Judy Scheeren Literacy Center provides assessment and instruction for children and adolescents who need assistance with reading and writing. Our services are open to the public.
Sarah Brown, Professional Studies in Education, is also head coach of the undefeated Indiana High School Swimming and Diving teams.
The chapter by Asmaa Radwan and Jacqueline McGinty, titled "Towards a Conceptual Generative AI Ethical Framework in Teacher Education," delves into the transformative potential of GenAI in education, highlighting its capabilities to enhance teaching and learning experiences.
Chin Yi Huang and Julie W. Ankrum’s article, “Exploring Taiwanese EFL Teachers’ Resilience Based on their Experience of Working through the Pandemic,” was recently published in Airiti’s "Journal of Sciences & Humanities." Airiti is a Taiwanese online journal. 
Farheen Mahmood and Julie W. Ankrum co-authored an article in "Early Childhood Education Journal" describing research exploring the effects of a postcolonial mindset on the accessibility to instructional literature (picturebooks, storybooks, and anthologies/readers) in Pakistan. 
Crystal Machado, professor in the Department of Professional Studies in Education, and Lizoon Nahar, a Curriculum and Instruction doctoral candidate, published the paper “Influence of a Multiphase Inquiry-based Learning Project on Students' Science Literacy" in the "Journal of Education in Science, Environment, and Health."
Resources for
Quick Links
Support & Safety
Connect
