Jackson State University official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://www.jsums.edu/art/ai/
Register for free
Ready to begin?
Step 1: Sign in or sign up for LinkedIn! Click Here
Step 2: Access Modules by Clicking Here
Career Essentials in Generative AI by Microsoft and LinkedIn Learning
Embrace the future with Generative AI!
Take part in this specialized and free upskilling program at your own pace online. 
This course is comprised of five modules (4.5 hours total) which include online videos and short quizzes.Module topics include:
Accompanying each module, we hosted and recorded optional workshops and visiting speakers.
This course can be completed fully online at your own pace. There are two recorded hands on workshops that were offered on October 17 and November 16 to encourage you to explore additional AI applications. 
Upon finishing this course, you will receive a LinkedIn badge certifying you in the foundations of Generative AI and a completion certificate. 
This course builds on the Skill-It-Thon, a previous statewide digital skills initiative supported by Microsoft TechSpark. For every module completed through this Skill AI-thon, you will be able to submit a certificate of completion to the Skill AI-thon and you may be eligible to go into the draw for cash prizes.
To help you through this course, we have hosted and recorded hands-on workshops, will advertise drop in office hours, and keynote speakers from Jackson who can offer their technical expertise. 
Key event dates:
Ready to begin?
Step 1: Sign in or sign up for LinkedIn! Click Here
In this module, generative AI expert Pinar Seyhan Demirdag covers the basics of generative AI, with topics including what it is, how it works, how to create your own content, and different types of models.
 In this course, instructor Ashley Kennedy shows you how to get up to speed with the key distinctions and best practices of using reasoning engines that leverage generative AI.
Learn how Bing Chat can perform a wide variety of tasks and help you streamline your entire workflow, from generating ideas and summarizing data to solving common work problems such as planning itineraries, scheduling, and communicating with coworkers.
In this module, expert Vilas Dhar equips designers and decision makers to better understand and act on the emerging ethical risks and considerations of generative artificial intelligence. 
Get a high-level overview of the top tools in the field. First, see what it means for a system to display “intelligence.” Even with its huge strides, the core ideas in machine learning and neural networks are still accessible.
Finished the AI-Thon?Congratulations! Upload your certificate of completion in the form below.You will enter the digital skills challenge and go into the draw to win prizes.
    Upload AI Certificate of Completion 
Questions? Contact j00962742@jsums.edu
