Jacksonville University official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://www.ju.edu/academicintegrity/academic-integrity-misconduct-policy.php
Apply | My JU | Give Now
Members of the Jacksonville University community are expected to foster and uphold
                                                   the highest standards of honesty and integrity, which are foundations for the intellectual
                                                   endeavors we engage in. To underscore the importance of truth, honesty, and accountability,
                                                   students and instructors should adhere to the following standard:
I do not lie, cheat, or steal, nor do I condone the actions of those who do.
The Jacksonville University faculty adopted the following Academic integrity Pledge
                                                   for all students:
As a student of Jacksonville University, I pledge to uphold the values of academic
                                                      integrity,
I will be honest in all my dealings with faculty, staff, and students,
I will cultivate an atmosphere of trust by being trustworthy,
I will treat all members of the community with fairness,
I will respect the dignity and value of all persons, and
I will take responsibility for my actions.
Academic misconduct occurs when a student engages in an action that is deceitful,
                                                   fraudulent, or dishonest regarding any type of academic assignment that is intended
                                                   to or results in an unfair academic advantage. In this context, the term “assignment”
                                                   refers to any type of graded or ungraded work that is submitted for evaluation for
                                                   any course. Academic misconduct includes but is not limited to cheating, collusion,
                                                   falsification, misrepresentation, unauthorized collaboration on assignments, copying
                                                   another student’s work, using or providing unauthorized notes or materials, turning
                                                   in work not produced by the individual  (which may include use of artificial intelligence
                                                   content generation not limited to text, images, design, art, video, audio, or computer
                                                   code), attempting to get credit for a single instance of work submitted for more than
                                                   one course, and plagiarism. Furthermore, providing deceitful, fraudulent, or dishonest
                                                   information during discussions of an academic manner with faculty are also examples
                                                   of academic misconduct.
Statement Regarding Use of Generative Artificial Intelligence (GenAI)
Jacksonville University recognizes the power and potential in Artificial Intelligence
                                                   to assist in many areas of scholarship represented at the institution. GenAI, like
                                                   ChatGPT and others also have the potential to be misused. In general, the Academic
                                                   Integrity Policy stated in this document and elsewhere in Jacksonville University
                                                   publications and websites leaves the use of AI in an academic setting up to the faculty.
                                                   GenAI produced materials submitted for graded assignments may falsely represent the
                                                   work as generated solely by the student. The specific use of AI on assignments is
                                                   left up to the individual instructor and should be articulated on course syllabi and
                                                   in the instructions for individual assignments. If instructors do not give explicit
                                                   permission to use GenAI students should assume that its use may constitute a violation
                                                   of the Academic Integrity Policy of Jacksonville University.
Specific examples of academic misconduct include, but are not limited to the following:
Ways to avoid academic misconduct:
It is the responsibility of each student at Jacksonville University to know and abide
                                                   by the standards and guidelines for academic integrity, as outlined above.
Instructors are expected to provide clear information regarding class assignments;
                                                   however, it is ultimately a student’s responsibility to understand the amount of collaboration
                                                   allowed in a specific assignment, to understand how to cite sources, and to never
                                                   assume that working with others or using the student’s previous work or the work of
                                                   others is acceptable without instructor permission.  
It is the responsibility of instructors to report all acts of misconduct, even if
                                                   they believe those acts to be unintentional, so that students can benefit from special
                                                   educational instruction and assistance to help ensure that they avoid committing such
                                                   acts again in the future.  If the instructor is unsure whether a violation has occurred,
                                                   the instructor is to consult with the Chair of the Academic Integrity Council.  
By reporting acts of academic misconduct through the Academic Misconduct Notification
                                                   Form (available to instructors via the MyJU portal) at the time that they are detected,
                                                   discovered, or known (hereafter referred to as the discovery date), instructors initiate
                                                   a process that allows students to either accept all penalties or exercise the right
                                                   to challenge the instructor’s determination of academic misconduct in a timely manner
                                                   with the Academic Integrity Council.  This process is entirely separate from the Grade
                                                   Appeals Process.  If an instructor should impose a penalty for an act of academic
                                                   misconduct in a course, but fail to report the incident through the Academic Misconduct Notification Form within fifteen (15) business days of the discovery date when school is in session,
                                                   the instructor’s action will be considered a violation of university policy. Therefore,
                                                   if the student should initiate a grade appeal after receiving his/her final grade
                                                   in the course, the instructor’s dean would automatically reverse the course-level
                                                   penalty.    
If an instructor believes a student has committed an act of academic misconduct, the
                                                   instructor is to meet with the student, if possible, to discuss the matter. This discussion
                                                   may occur in person, via telephone, or video conference.   When it is not possible
                                                   to meet with the student, the instructor is to contact the student by email.   This
                                                   meeting or email contact should be initiated as soon as possible after the discovery
                                                   date. The instructor is then to fill out the Academic Misconduct Notification Form within fifteen (15) business days of the discovery date when school is in session.
                                                    This form will generate a report that will be automatically transmitted via email
                                                   to the student, the instructor, and the Director of Academic Integrity.  In addition
                                                   to describing the incident on this form, the instructor will:  
NOTE:  If the course-level penalty assigned by the instructor is failure for the entire
                                                   course, the instructor is to indicate, on the Academic Misconduct Notification Form,
                                                   that the Registrar’s Office will issue an “Academic Hold” which will prevent the student
                                                   from withdrawing from the course in question (the student may still withdraw from
                                                   other courses).  
There are two levels of penalties for incidents of academic misconduct.
Upon discovery of an act of academic misconduct, the assigning of a course-level penalty
                                                   is up to the discretion of the instructor. If the student requests an AIC hearing
                                                   panel to review his or her case and is found innocent of the alleged misconduct, the
                                                   instructor must retract any course-level penalties and re-grade the assignment(s)
                                                   in question as if no academic misconduct occurred.
Unless the course-level penalty is failure for the entire course, the student may
                                                   still withdraw from the course, provided that the deadline for withdrawing has not
                                                   yet passed.
A course-level penalty on the affected assignment that incidentally results in the
                                                   student failure in the course is not the same as imposing a penalty of failure in the course.
Once a student has accepted the consequences for an act of academic misconduct, or
                                                   has been found to have committed an act of academic misconduct by a Hearing Panel
                                                   of the Academic Integrity Council (see section XVI, “Actions Taken Upon an AIC Hearing
                                                   Panel Decision” below), the university-level penalties below are to be imposed, and
                                                   the student’s academic advisor is to be notified. If the student is an athlete, the
                                                   Chief Athletics Officer and the Faculty Athletics Representative are to be notified.
                                                    If the student is a member of ROTC, his or her Commanding Officer is to be notified. 
WARNINGS:
CITATIONS FOR ACADEMIC MISCONDUCT:
NOTE: If a student’s first two offenses occur concurrently (as determined by a relevant
                                                   Dean), whether they involve warnings, citations, or a mix of both, they are to be
                                                   treated as one offense.  If these first two offenses are a mix of a warning and a
                                                   citation, they are to count as one citation of academic misconduct.  If a student
                                                   who has previously been free of academic misconduct suddenly commits more than two
                                                   offenses in one semester, however, it is up to the judgment of the Director of Academic
                                                   Integrity to decide whether those acts will count as one or more offenses.
 
EDUCATIONAL INSTRUCTION AND ASSISTANCE:
PROBATIONARY WATCH LIST, SUSPENSION, AND EXPULSION:
SPECIAL CASES:
Once the Director of Academic Integrity has received the Academic Misconduct Notification
                                                   Form from the instructor the following actions occur:
If the instructor has indicated “WARNING” only on the Academic Misconduct Notification
                                                   Form, that instructor’s judgment is to be respected.  If the instructor marks “CITATION,”
                                                   however, the instructor’s dean has the right to lessen that to a “WARNING” if, in
                                                   his or her judgment, the infraction fits the guidelines for a warning.  Again, these
                                                   guidelines include any of the following circumstances: 
In cases in which the student accepts the penalties without an admission of misconduct,
                                                   or fails to request a hearing with the Academic Integrity Council within the allotted
                                                   seven (7) business days, the Director of Academic Integrity records a determination
                                                   that the student has accepted the penalties.  The Academic Hold remains in place until
                                                   required educational training (see Section VI above) has been completed.  
The Academic Integrity Council is chaired by the Director of Academic Integrity.
The other members of the Academic Integrity Council form a pool of members from which
                                                   the AIC Chair draws to form Hearing Panels.
A student can request a hearing with the Academic Integrity Council only after an
                                                   Academic Misconduct Notification Form is submitted by the instructor.   If there is
                                                   no Academic Misconduct Notification Form submitted by the instructor, the student
                                                   will need to refer to information in the Grade Appeal Process in the JU Catalog.
If the student requests a hearing with the Academic Integrity Council, the Director
                                                   of Academic Integrity meets (virtually, via telephone, or in person) with the student
                                                   in a neutral, advisory role, to review the case and discuss the student’s options.
                                                    If the instructor who has charged the student with an act of misconduct is also the
                                                   AIC chair, then the instructor’s dean will designate another faculty member serving
                                                   on the AIC to meet with the student, and to serve as the AIC chair for that case.
The AIC Chair will explain the process and procedures involved in the hearing process.
                                                    At this time, the student will have another opportunity to accept the penalties.
                                                    If, after this meeting, the student still wishes to request a hearing, the AIC Chair
                                                   is to make a reasonable effort to schedule one around the student’s schedule.  This
                                                   hearing is to occur within the next fourteen (14) business days, if possible.  
When alleged violations occur at the end of a fall or summer semester, the hearing
                                                   is to take place within thirty (30) days of the beginning of the next spring or fall
                                                   semester, respectively.  When alleged violations occur at the end of the spring semester,
                                                   the hearing is to take place no later than thirty days after the beginning of the
                                                   following fall semester.
The AIC Chair will then select the participants of a Hearing Panel from the members
                                                   of the AIC.  The Hearing Panel is to consist of three to five voting members (aside
                                                   from the chair). 
Members of the AIC may disqualify themselves from participating in any particular
                                                   Hearing Panel for any reason.  In such a case, it is up to the chair to find a replacement
                                                   member according to the above guidelines. The instructor who has accused the student
                                                   of academic misconduct cannot be a member of the hearing panel, nor serve as the AIC
                                                   chair for that panel.  
The student, as well as the instructor are to be notified of the time and place of
                                                   the hearing. Hearing panels may be held via electronic meeting.
If an accused student is either unwilling or unable to attend a Hearing Panel that
                                                   he or she has requested, the AIC chair may opt to have five members of the AIC review
                                                   the student’s case without requiring these members to attend a physical meeting.
AIC Hearing Panels have jurisdiction over one issue and one issue alone: determining
                                                   whether reported students should be held responsible for committing the particular
                                                   act(s) of academic misconduct related to the warning or the citation alleged by the
                                                   instructor.  AIC Hearing Panels have no jurisdiction over the penalties imposed for
                                                   violations, or whether the act in question merits a warning or a citation for academic
                                                   misconduct.  
Only the instructor’s dean has the right to change a citation to a warning.  His or
                                                   her decision on this matter is final.  If a student who has admitted an act of academic
                                                   misconduct or been found to have committed such an act by a n AIC Hearing Panel should
                                                   wish to contest the severity of a course-level penalty imposed by an instructor (on
                                                   the basis that the penalty was not in accordance with the instructor’s stated syllabus
                                                   policies), that student would need to follow the process outlined in the “Standard
                                                   Procedures for Appeals of Grades and Sanctions” section of the Academic Catalog.
AIC Hearings are to be closed from the public.  Only the following people are to be
                                                   allowed to attend:
The instructor is strongly encouraged to attend the hearing.
The Chair of the AIC is to preside over the proceedings of the Hearing Panel.  
Formal rules of evidence need not apply.  If either the student or the instructor
                                                   fails to attend the hearing, the hearing will still proceed.  The student has the
                                                   right to hear the testimony and witnesses offered by the instructor, as well as to
                                                   review all evidence submitted by the instructor.  At the sole discretion of the AIC
                                                   Chair, the instructor may be excluded from any part of the panel proceedings.
All evidence presented will be considered objectively by the panel.  Both the instructor
                                                   and the student are only to speak when prompted by the AIC Chair.  Once all evidence
                                                   has been presented and panel members have finished with their questions, the Chair
                                                   will ask everyone to leave except for the panel members, so that deliberations can
                                                   occur.
Once the Hearing Panel is alone with the AIC Chair, the Chair will answer any questions
                                                   that any member of the AIC Hearing Panel might have about the proceedings.  Then the
                                                   Chair will leave the panelists alone to deliberate until they notify the chair that
                                                   they are ready to vote.  The vote is to be private, submitted by paper or secret electronic
                                                   ballot, and administered by the chair, with the majority determining the outcome.
                                                    In the event of a tie, the student is to be exonerated of the academic misconduct.
The AIC Chair is to keep a record of the proceedings and the outcome, documenting
                                                   the names of all attendants along with the ultimate finding of the Hearing Panel.
                                                   If the student has been found to have committed an act of academic misconduct, the
                                                   AIC Chair is to record the finding in the office of the Chief Academic Officer. 
The AIC chair is to notify the student and the instructor of the outcome of the hearing
                                                   panel.
If the hearing panel has found the student to have committed an act of academic misconduct,
                                                   the AIC chair will inform the student’s academic advisor of the outcome.   The AIC
                                                   chair will make the following additional notifications if relevant:  if the student
                                                   is an athlete, the Chief Athletics Officer and the Faculty Athletics Representative
                                                   are to be notified; if the student is a member of ROTC, their Commanding Officer is
                                                   to be notified. The instructor’s dean or designee is also to inform both the student
                                                   and the instructor of the finding and is to enforce all penalties, which may include
                                                   expulsion from the university.  If applicable, the instructor’s dean or designee is
                                                   also to notify the Registrar to place a “training hold” on the student’s account to
                                                   prevent the student from registering for classes, requesting transcripts, and / or
                                                   graduating, until he or she receives notification from the appropriate units (i.e.,
                                                   the Writing Center and the Academic Support Center) that any mandatory educational
                                                   training (see Section VI above) has been completed.  
If the student is exonerated of the academic misconduct, the Director of Academic
                                                   Integrity will release the Academic Integrity hold on the student’s academic records
                                                   and  notify the instructor to retract any course-level penalties previously assessed
                                                   and to re-grade the assignment(s) in question as if no academic misconduct occurred.
Decisions of an AIC Hearing Panel are final, unless the student can document that
                                                   a serious procedural error occurred. This documentation must be submitted to the Chief
                                                   Academic Officer within ten (10) business days of the hearing panel finding. The Chief
                                                   Academic Officer will then review the student’s appeal, make a decision, and notify
                                                   all parties of the decision and its rationale.  The decision of the Chief Academic
                                                   Officer will be final.
 

				Jacksonville University
				2800 University Blvd N
				Jacksonville, FL 32211
				(904) 256-8000
			

Jacksonville University is an equal opportunity affirmative action institution.

