James Cook University of North Queensland official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://research.jcu.edu.au/portfolio/sourav.das/
I am a Senior Lecturer in statistics and data science with varied and interdisciplinary interests in applied and methodological statistics. My research expertise are in methodology and applications of statistical analysis of time series and spatial processes. I investigate natural events that evolve over space and time. Of particular interest are landslides, tropical cyclones, river flow, and  diseases. The statistical problems are wide rannging and complex.
Students are our core research strength. Mr. Yihong Mei recently won a national summer research scholarship (https://amsi.org.au/) to investigate differences in characteristic features of polar ice reduction. I am looking for students to compete for PhD scholarships internally and nationally. If you are interested please see below.  
My immediate interests fall into the following categories-
Statistical Methodology
Applications
The following problems are often motivated bythe above applications.
If you wish to pursue a PhD with me or want to have a discussion on some of my current research interests please contact me at sourav.das@jcu.edu.au. I am particularly keen to hear from students with background in one or more of the following- statistical analysis of time series, applied stochastic process, multivariate statistical methods, mixed effects modelling or spatial statistics.

                        These are the most recent publications
                        associated with this author.  To see a detailed profile of
                        all publications stored at JCU, visit
                        ResearchOnline@JCU.
                        
                            Hover over Altmetrics badges to see social impact.
                        
                    

                          ResearchOnline@JCU stores
                          15+ research outputs authored by Dr Sourav Das
                          from 2014 onwards.
                        

                  Current and recent Research Funding to JCU is shown by
                  funding source and project.
                  

Advisory Accreditation:
                      I can be on your Advisory Panel as a Primary or Secondary Advisor.
                  

                  These Higher Degree Research projects are either current or
                  by students who have completed their studies within the past
                  5 years at JCU.  Linked titles show theses available within 
                  ResearchOnline@JCU.
                  

     The map shows research collaborations by institution from the
     past 7 years. 
     Note: Map points are
     indicative of the countries or states that institutions are
     associated with.
 
Call 1800-246-446
On campus call 0000, then 15555
Lovingly crafted by hand in
            Pyramid and 
            Python
            at James Cook University by the 
            eResearch Centre and 
            Research 
                Services.




Icons from Iconic pack.
  Copyright © 1995 to 2018, James Cook University. All rights reserved. ABN 46253211955
Member of Innovative Research Universities | 
Feedback | 
Terms of use | 
Privacy statement | 
CRICOS Provider Code:00117J

