John Brown University official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://www.jbu.edu/
John Brown University2000 W. University St., 
Siloam Springs, AR 72761
479-524-9500jbuinfo@jbu.edu
What are you looking for?
    
In-person bachelor's degrees. Best for recent high school graduates and transfer students looking for a traditional on-campus college experience. 
In-person and online master's degrees and certificates in business, counseling, cybersecurity and education. Best for professionals and college graduates.
Fully online bachelor's degrees. Best for students looking to earn their first degree in a flexible online format.
For Christians, faith and learning are inseparable. You will be challenged to cultivate the fruits of the Spirit in every class.
Our academic programs are designed to guide you into professional success. Hands-on experiences and rigorous academics will equip you to impress employers or start grad school.
Our unique approach to education is designed to cultivate your whole person – head, heart and hand. Your holistic growth will transform you into a more earnest believer, a better neighbor and a more effective professional.

Hard work is important, but so is your mental and spiritual health. At JBU, you’ll be welcomed into a community of good friends and caring mentors that will help you thrive and enjoy life.

Founded in 1919, JBU is a leading Christian college providing a highly-ranked academic, spiritual and professional foundation for world-impacting careers.
JBU is Arkansas' top-ranked university (the Wall Street Journal) and among the top-10 regional universities in the South (U.S. News & World Report). JBU enrolls more than 2,200 students from 37 states and 48 countries in its in-person and online undergraduate and graduate programs.
SILOAM SPRINGS, Arkansas (Mar. 8, 2024) – John Brown University's graduate counseling program received accreditation from the Council for Accreditation of Counseling and Related Educational Programs.
CACREP Accreditation provides recognition that the content and quality of the program has been evaluated and meets standards set by the profession.
The Board of Directors of the Council for CACREP met January 11-13, 2024, and decided to accredit the clinical mental health counseling program at JBU.
"We are very proud of achieving CACREP accreditation as it affirms the quality of our counseling program and its faculty, staff, students and graduates," said Chris Hull, department chair of graduate counseling. "This accreditation provides our graduates with a smoother and simpler pathway to achieving professional counseling licensure in most states across America."
The Board based the accreditation decision on an extensive review of the self-study documents, the site review team’s report, and the institution’s response to the site review team’s report.
The accreditation runs through March 31, 2032, and provides retroactive recognition for program graduates that extends back to January 13, 2022.
"The 10 year cycle also ensures that hundreds of JBU counseling students will earn a degree from a nationally recognized program at a faith-based institution and thus, be better able to honor God and serve others through the counseling profession," Hull said.
For more information about the JBU counseling program, please visit https://www.jbu.edu/graduate/degree-programs/ms-counseling/. 
John Brown University is a leading private Christian university, training students to honor God and serve others since 1919. Arkansas’ top-ranked university (The Wall Street Journal) and top-ranked regional university (U.S. News), JBU enrolls more than 2,200 students from 37 states and 42 countries in its traditional undergraduate, graduate, online and concurrent education programs. JBU offers over 50 undergraduate majors, with top programs including nursing, psychology, business, computer science, construction management, graphic design, family and human services, and engineering. Eighteen graduate degrees are available in business, counseling, cybersecurity, and education.

            March 8, 2024
        
SILOAM SPRINGS, Arkansas (Mar. 1, 2024) – JBU construction management seniors and juniors traveled to Dallas, Texas this past weekend and made a strong showing in the Regional Associated Schools of Construction (ASC)/TEXO Student Competition.
The TEXO Student Competition is an annual competition between CM programs in the region, including Oklahoma State, Oklahoma, Texas Tech, Texas A&M and others.
The Competition begins with development of a project proposal over a 16-hour period (at the home school) with final presentations to the judges in Dallas, Texas.
The JBU Heavy Civil team placed second and the Design Build team placed third in their respective divisions.
"I’m very proud of our students and the hard work they put in for the TEXO competition and we thank God who gives the victory," said David Martin, Ph.D., department chair of construction management.
JBU students also garnered individual awards, as junior Sam Green received first place for best presenter in the heavy civil division, and seniors Matt Bowden and Christopher Burgess won third place for best presenter in the heavy civil division and the design build division, respectively.
This is the 11th year in a row that JBU construction management students have placed in at least one division of the competition.
"JBU's construction management continues to prove that our program belongs in the construction management major leagues," Martin said. "Our programs success is a reflection of the quality of our students, the dedication of its faculty and staff, the support of JBU's administration, and the involvement of our industry partners."
John Brown University is a leading private Christian university, training students to honor God and serve others since 1919. Arkansas’ top-ranked university (The Wall Street Journal) and top-ranked regional university (U.S. News), JBU enrolls more than 2,200 students from 37 states and 42 countries in its traditional undergraduate, graduate, online and concurrent education programs. JBU offers over 50 undergraduate majors, with top programs including nursing, psychology, business, computer science, construction management, graphic design, family and human services, and engineering. Eighteen graduate degrees are available in business, counseling, cybersecurity, and education.

            March 1, 2024
        
SILOAM SPRINGS, Arkansas (Feb. 19, 2024) — John Brown University announced a new undergraduate degree in artificial intelligence, beginning in the fall of 2024, making it the first Christian university in the U.S. to offer a bachelor's in the field.According to Bloomberg Intelligence, the current generative AI market is approximately $40 billion and is expected to grow to $1.3 trillion by 2032. While AI has come to the forefront of more discussions with the public launch of programs like ChatGPT, it has been in use for decades, and most people use it every day without thinking about it. AI impacts everyday life, from real-time traffic monitoring in navigation apps to smart-home devices, search engine algorithms, banking fraud alerts and spell-check software. “AI has enormous potential to improve health care, make education more accessible, improve economic health, increase online child safety and much more,” said Ted Song, Ph.D., JBU’s chief innovation officer. “JBU’s Christ-centered approach to education will empower our alumni to enter the field, not just with technical skills but with a strong perspective on the ethical use of AI.”JBU added a minor in artificial intelligence in 2023, but with the growing interest in the field, the university has made it available as a Bachelor of Science or Bachelor of Arts degree. Only about a dozen universities in the U.S. offer a full bachelor’s degree in artificial intelligence, instead many colleges only offer a concentration or certification within a broader computer science based degree.Students in JBU’s AI degree program can incorporate the AI degree with other academic interests such as business, data analytics, engineering, mathematics and natural sciences.  “The artificial intelligence major will teach students to think and solve real-world problems using logic and technology from a Christian worldview,” said Justus Selwyn, Ph.D., chair of the computer science department. “In an era of rapid technological advancement, students passionate about innovations are welcomed to join our team to become AI technocrats and valuable solution providers to the dynamic world of AI." For more information about the program, visit jbu.edu/majors/artificial-intelligence or email Justus Selwyn at jselwyn@jbu.edu .
John Brown University is a leading private Christian university, training students to honor God and serve others since 1919. Arkansas’ top-ranked university (The Wall Street Journal) and top-ranked regional university (U.S. News), JBU enrolls more than 2,200 students from 37 states and 42 countries in its traditional undergraduate, graduate, online and concurrent education programs. JBU offers over 50 undergraduate majors, with top programs including nursing, psychology, business, computer science, construction management, graphic design, family and human services, and engineering. Eighteen graduate degrees are available in business, counseling, cybersecurity, and education.

            February 19, 2024
        
SILOAM SPRINGS, Arkansas (Feb. 14, 2024) – John Brown University has named Anne Tohme the university’s next vice president for student development. Tohme, an alumna of JBU, is slated to begin the role on July 1 and succeeds Steve Beers, Ph.D., who is retiring after serving as VPSD since 1998.
As VPSD, Tohme will lead JBU’s residence life program, the student counseling center, health services, career development, the Office of Christian Formation, student activities and campus safety.
“I look forward to contributing to a mission I resonate with so deeply. It is sweet to return to a place that so profoundly impacted my own life and be able to give back and foster that growth and transformation in the lives of today’s JBU students,” said Tohme. “I am passionate about holistic education, discipleship and Christ-centered community. It is with great gratitude and excitement that my family and I join the work and ministry of JBU.”
Tohme will also serve on the President’s Cabinet, a nine-person team that works with JBU President Chip Pollard to set the strategic direction for JBU and oversee and implement planning, major initiatives and policies. 
“Anne’s extensive experience in student development, her heart for students, and her commitment to discipleship will be an asset to JBU’s holistic approach to developing students spiritually, emotionally, mentally and academically,” said Pollard. “We’re excited to welcome her back to the JBU community, and I look forward to working with her.”
Tohme has been vice president for student life at Warner University in Lake Wales, Florida, since 2020. Before that, she served for 17 years in various student development roles at Trinity International University in Deerfield, Illinois. She holds a Master of Divinity from Trinity Evangelical Divinity School with a concentration in educational ministries and a bachelor’s in business administration from JBU.
John Brown University is a leading private Christian university, training students to honor God and serve others since 1919. Arkansas’ top-ranked university (The Wall Street Journal) and top-ranked regional university (U.S. News), JBU enrolls more than 2,200 students from 37 states and 42 countries in its traditional undergraduate, graduate, online and concurrent education programs. JBU offers over 50 undergraduate majors, with top programs including nursing, psychology, business, computer science, construction management, graphic design, family and human services, and engineering. Eighteen graduate degrees are available in business, counseling, cybersecurity, and education.

            February 14, 2024
        
SILOAM SPRINGS, Arkansas (Feb. 13, 2024) - John Brown University awarded the final three Presidential Scholarships this past week to Darissa Ennes from Monet, Missouri; Citlali Oritz Tinajero from Rogers, Arkansas; and Abrie Ables from Malvern, Arkansas.
Each year, JBU hosts a Scholarship Competition in November and February and invites prospective students who qualify based on academic performance. The competition includes rigorous interviews conducted by various faculty and staff on the JBU campus.
From the two weekends, JBU awarded Presidential Scholarships to six students who demonstrated great academic achievement as well as social and spiritual maturity. The scholarship is valued at $120,000, awarded over four years.
The other three Presidential Scholarship winners announced in the fall were Ryane Owens from Bixby, Oklahoma; Luis Chojolan from Guatemala; and Grace Higley from Bentonville, Arkansas.
JBU also awarded more than $4 million in Chancellor's Scholarships to some of the students that participated in the competition.
For more information on scholarships at JBU, please visit jbu.edu/scholarships.
John Brown University is a leading private Christian university, training students to honor God and serve others since 1919. Arkansas’ top-ranked university (The Wall Street Journal) and top-ranked regional university (U.S. News), JBU enrolls more than 2,200 students from 37 states and 42 countries in its traditional undergraduate, graduate, online and concurrent education programs. JBU offers over 50 undergraduate majors, with top programs including nursing, psychology, business, computer science, construction management, graphic design, family and human services, and engineering. Eighteen graduate degrees are available in business, counseling, cybersecurity, and education.

            February 14, 2024
        
SILOAM SPRINGS, Arkansas (Jan. 9, 2024) – John Brown University will accelerate the growth of the university’s cybersecurity program and help develop local talent to meet workforce needs.
A $6.5 million grant from the Walton Family Charitable Support Foundation will establish an endowment with $3 million designated to fund student scholarships, $2 million for technology and $1.5 million for a full-time program faculty.
“There is a critical need for cybersecurity professionals in Arkansas,” said JBU President Chip Pollard. “JBU undergraduate and master-level students will benefit greatly from the dedicated faculty, the up-to-date software and hardware, and the scholarships this generous grant provides.”
In 2020, JBU became the only university in Northwest Arkansas to offer a bachelor’s degree in cybersecurity. In these early years, the program has approximately doubled its student numbers each fall.
“JBU’s holistic approach to education empowers our graduates to master not just the technical knowledge but also develop the ability to solve problems, think critically and communicate thoughtfully,” said Ted Song, Ph.D., chief innovation officer at JBU. “Industry leaders tell us that JBU graduates have the soft skills that make them great leaders as they grow in the profession.”
JBU’s bachelor of science in cybersecurity is available in the university’s traditional on-campus program and a fully online format designed for working adults.
The school also offers MBA and M.S. programs in cybersecurity, which students can start during their undergraduate studies and complete in just one additional year through JBU’s accelerated master’s program.
Song says that the 4 + 1 track has been vital in recruiting high school students interested in this growing industry.
The $6.5 million grant is the second-largest gift to JBU’s Steadfast Faith capital campaign. The campaign seeks to strengthen JBU’s mission for the future by raising $100 million for academic programs, construction projects, scholarships and operations. To date, JBU has received $67 million from donors. Read more about the campaign at jbu.edu/steadfast-faith.
John Brown University is a leading private Christian university, training students to honor God and serve others since 1919. Arkansas’ top-ranked university (The Wall Street Journal) and top-ranked regional university (U.S. News), JBU enrolls more than 2,200 students from 37 states and 42 countries in its traditional undergraduate, graduate, online and concurrent education programs. JBU offers over 50 undergraduate majors, with top programs including nursing, psychology, business, computer science, construction management, graphic design, family and human services, and engineering. Eighteen graduate degrees are available in business, counseling, cybersecurity, and education.

            January 8, 2024
        
SILOAM SPRINGS, Arkansas (Nov. 10, 2023) – The Council for Christian Colleges & Universities announced that Ted Song, Ph.D., chief diversity officer at JBU, has been selected as one of the first three CCCU Presidential Fellows along with Keith Hall, Ph.D., (Azusa Pacific University) and Sarah Visser, Ph.D., (Calvin University).
The Presidential Fellowship Program is a new, yearlong fellowship to prepare leaders to answer the call to the Christian college presidency. Each year, the CCCU will select one to three individuals for the fellowship who currently serve or have previously served as CCCU commissioners and who demonstrate exceptional strength of character, competence and leadership potential. 
During the one-year fellowship program, Presidential Fellows will access numerous opportunities for professional development, leadership development and networking.
Song is associate professor of electrical engineering, chief diversity officer and chief innovation officer at John Brown University. He also serves as vice president of the Christian Engineering Society and chair of the CCCU’s Diversity and Inclusion Commission.
“On behalf of the JBU community, I want to congratulate Dr. Ted Song for being named an inaugural CCCU Presidential Fellow,” said JBU President Chip Pollard. “We know of Ted’s excellence and faithfulness, not only to the mission here at JBU but also to other institutions in the CCCU, and we are grateful for this opportunity for him to grow in his leadership.” 
For more information about the CCCU’s Presidential Fellows Program, contact Chief Advancement Officer Jill Hartness at jhartness@cccu.org.
John Brown University is a leading private Christian university, training students to honor God and serve others since 1919. Arkansas’ top-ranked university (The Wall Street Journal) and top-ranked regional university (U.S. News), JBU enrolls more than 2,200 students from 37 states and 42 countries in its traditional undergraduate, graduate, online and concurrent education programs. JBU offers over 50 undergraduate majors, with top programs including nursing, psychology, business, computer science, construction management, graphic design, family and human services, and engineering. Eighteen graduate degrees are available in business, counseling, cybersecurity, and education.

            November 9, 2023
        
SILOAM SPRINGS, Arkansas (Oct. 27, 2023) - John Brown University Music & Theatre will present "The Addams Family," music and lyrics by Andrew Lippa, book by Marshall Brickman and Rick Elice, Oct. 27-28 at 7:30 p.m., and Nov. 2-4 at 7:30 p.m., at the Berry Performing Arts Center on the Siloam Springs Campus.
Based on the classic characters created by Charles Addams, "The Addams Family" is a wacky musical comedy that celebrates family and love in the most unlikely of places.
"The Addams Family is a goofy, wacky, weird musical comedy that is somehow so relatable and touching," said Liesl Dromi, assistant professor of music at JBU. "Our team of music & theatre students, faculty, staff, and local professional musicians have had an absolute blast bringing this production to life. We hope our audiences enjoy it as much as we do!"
You can purchase tickets by phone at (479) 524-7382, at jbu.edu/tickets, or at the door the night of the performance. Tickets are $16 for adults, $14 for senior adults, JBU alumni, faculty and staff, $7 for students and $3 for JBU students.
John Brown University is a leading private Christian university, training students to honor God and serve others since 1919. Arkansas’ top-ranked university (The Wall Street Journal) and top-ranked regional university (U.S. News), JBU enrolls more than 2,200 students from 37 states and 42 countries in its traditional undergraduate, graduate, online and concurrent education programs. JBU offers over 50 undergraduate majors, with top programs including nursing, psychology, business, computer science, construction management, graphic design, family and human services, and engineering. Eighteen graduate degrees are available in business, counseling, cybersecurity, and education.

            October 26, 2023
        
SILOAM SPRINGS, Arkansas (Oct. 27, 2023) - The tradition started on Nov. 12, 1983, when a group of J. Alvin Brown Hall residents and members of the rugby team decided to encourage students to sneak in rolls of toilet paper and let them fly when the Golden Eagles men's basketball team scored the first field goal of the season-opening game. 
Jeff Berggren ’84 was serving as the sports information director during the game and admitted that students weren't sure what head coach Curt Pickering would think about their technical-foul inducing stunt. Luckily, the team won the game and a tradition was born.
"Of course, we paid the price the next day with no toilet paper in J. Alvin until the janitors replenished the supply," Berggren said.
It still took several years before the tradition was embraced wholeheartedly by the school and became the students' most-loved tradition.
Students no longer have to raid the school TP supply thanks to a partnership with Kimberly-Clark who has donated 4,000 rolls of toilet paper for the game for the last seven years. Fans exchanged canned food items for a roll of TP to toss, and the other 2,000 rolls will be donated, along with the canned food items, to the Manna Center, a local food bank in Siloam Springs.  
This year's game against Barclay (Kan.) was no exception with a packed-out crowd at Bill George Arena.
When junior guard Drew Miller sunk the first basket from 3-point range 47 seconds into the game, the crowd let loose and sent a cascade of toilet paper streaming onto the court from all sides.
"It's such a special small college tradition, and every player gets excited about the first game," said Jason Bescheta, head coach of the men's basketball team. "It builds an incredible energy throughout the entire JBU community."
JBU's TP game is hailed as "the best technical foul in all of sports" by USA Today, was featured on CBS's March Madness Fandemonium special in 2016, and received coverage by ESPN multiple times.

            October 26, 2023
        
SILOAM SPRINGS, Arkansas (Oct. 26, 2023) – John Brown University's Creciendo Juntos program received a grant from Tyson Foods totaling up to $20,000.
Creciendo Juntos, Spanish for "Growing Together," empowers Latino students living in the U.S. to flourish in higher education through a supportive community focused on mentorship, education and service, helping students fulfill their God-given potential.
This investment will allow Creciendo Juntos to help over 75 students attend workshops, host community events such as Loteria Night and the Hispanic Heritage Festival, and cover the cost of book vouchers.
"We are grateful to partner with Tyson as we look to positively impact the lives of our students and our community," said Marcos Gutierrez Angulo, Creciendo Juntos program director. "Tyson's partnership will create both immediate and long-term impact, and we look forward to seeing students transformed as a result."
Additionally, Gutierrez hopes this investment from Tyson Foods will improve college enrollment, retention and graduation rates.
“We are thrilled to be able to provide this investment in Siloam Springs, Arkansas, and to assist in improving the lives of our neighbors,” said Tim Grailer, senior director of social impact, Tyson Foods. “We take seriously the responsibility we have as a community member to help scale the good work being done by our nonprofit partners.”
For more information on Creciendo Juntos, please visit www.jbu.edu/student-life/creciendo-juntos/.
John Brown University is a leading private Christian university, training students to honor God and serve others since 1919. Arkansas’ top-ranked university (The Wall Street Journal) and top-ranked regional university (U.S. News), JBU enrolls more than 2,200 students from 37 states and 42 countries in its traditional undergraduate, graduate, online and concurrent education programs. JBU offers over 50 undergraduate majors, with top programs including nursing, psychology, business, computer science, construction management, graphic design, family and human services, and engineering. Eighteen graduate degrees are available in business, counseling, cybersecurity, and education.

            October 25, 2023
        
The future you starts at JBU.
The future you starts at JBU.
The future you starts at JBU.
The future you starts at JBU.
The future you starts at JBU.


John Brown University
2000 W. University St., Siloam Springs, AR 72761 479-524-9500 jbuinfo@jbu.edu
John Brown University
2000 W. University St., Siloam Springs, AR 72761 479-524-9500 jbuinfo@jbu.edu

    JBU does not unlawfully discriminate based on race, color, national or ethnic origin, sex, age, disability, marital status, military status, or age in the administration of its educational policies, admissions, financial aid, employment, educational programs, or activities. 

      John Brown University is a leading private Christian university, training students to honor God and serve others since 1919. Arkansas’ top-ranked university (The Wall Street Journal) and top-ranked regional university (U.S. News), JBU enrolls more than 2,200 students from 37 states and 42 countries in its traditional undergraduate, graduate, online and concurrent education programs. JBU offers more than 50 undergraduate majors, with top programs including nursing, psychology, construction management, graphic design, family and human services, and engineering. Eighteen graduate degrees are available in business, counseling, cybersecurity, and education.
       
