Le Moyne College official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://resources.library.lemoyne.edu/guides/academicintegrity/generativeAI
Generative AI are artificial intelligence bots that generate content such as text, images, code or videos. Text bots (like ChatGPT) use natural language processing to generate responses to prompts. They are not search engines, but instead generate responses based on data that they are trained on. It's important to note that most generative AI (like ChatGPT) do not share their training data so it's impossible to know what they have been trained with. 
Examples include: ChatGPT, DALL-E, Bard, AlphaCode, Synthesia, Elicit and Caktus.ai
Always confirm with your professor whether AI tools like ChatGPT are allowed for each assignment. 
Always verify information and sources generated by AI tools
Any use of AI in assignments must be acknowledged appropriately. Your instructor may provide guidance on how to reference the use of AI tools. Some possible examples include:
 
Overall, remember that it is important for you to understand the potential implications of using generative AI technology,  and to approach its use with honesty and integrity.
Here at Le Moyne College, your faculty will identify in the syllabus IF they wish for you to use generative AI on your course assignments, and HOW they want you to use generative AI on your course assignments. Your professor will choose one of these three general syllabus statements and share it in their syllabus for your course:
Generative AI Prohibited
The use of generative AI tools (e.g. ChatGPT, Bard, DALL-E, Caktus.ai) in this course is strictly prohibited. Students are not allowed to use generative AI tools for this course in any capacity.
The use of generative AI tools in this course will constitute a violation of academic integrity. Student submissions may be checked for use of generative AI using tools and plagiarism using certain services (e.g. Turnitin). The consequence for using generative AI tools in this course is
[specific classroom policy here]. If you have any questions regarding the use of tools that might be considered generative AI, please contact the professor before using those tools.
Acceptable and Unacceptable Uses of Generative AI
In general, the use of generative AI tools (e.g. ChatGPT, Bard, DALL-E, Caktus.ai) in this course is prohibited. Students are not allowed to use generative AI tools for this course unless expressly included in the instructions for the assignment. If a student uses generative AI tools
on an allowable assignment, they are expected to properly give credit to the specific AI tool used and provide a description of how the tool was used. If a student either uses generative AI tools on an assignment that is not expressly allowed, or if they use AI on an allowable assignment but do not properly credit the AI tool, it will be considered a violation of academic integrity (i.e. cheating). The consequence for using generative AI tools on assignments not expressly allowed in this course, or for failing to cite appropriately is [specific classroom policy here]. If you have any questions regarding the use of tools that might be considered generative AI or on which assignments generative AI is allowed, please contact the professor before using those tools.
Generative AI Use Encouraged
In this class, students are encouraged to use generative AI tools (e.g. ChatGPT, Bard, DALL-E, Caktus.ai) for any and all assignments. Students will be responsible for any work submitted that uses a generative AI tool and will be expected to ensure that the use of the material does not
violate ethical, legal, or social norms. If a student uses generative AI tools on an assignment, they are expected to properly give credit to the specific AI tool used and provide a description of how the tool was used. The consequence for not properly crediting the use of generative AI
tools on assignments is considered a violation of academic honesty and subject to [enter specific classroom policy here]. If you have any questions regarding the use of tools that might be considered generative AI, please contact the professor before using those tools.
Some citation styles have begun to develop guidelines for citing generative AI. As of August 2023, only APA, Chicago, and MLA have shared rules for citing generative AI:
APA Style - How to Cite Generative AI
Chicago Style - How to Cite Generative AI
MLA Style - How to Cite Generative AI
 
If you are not using one of those three styles, ask your faculty member for guidance and/or check the specific citation style to see if they have updated any guidance. If the citation style you are using does not yet have relevant guidelines, you could consider using the format for personal communication. Personal communication receives an in-text citation but does not appear on the list of references
Remember, one limitation of citing generative AI is that each time you prompt generative AI it produces a unique & dynamic interaction for you, and it is difficult to link your readers back to that original content. Some newly developed tools such as ShareGPT and AI Archives allow you to share output from ChatGPT by producing an archive of the content and a custom link. These tools might be useful for citing your use of generative AI. 
 
