Marymount University official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://marymount.edu/student-life/health-wellness/student-conduct/academic-integrity/information-for-students/resources-for-international-students/
Student Life  Student Health and Well-being  Student Conduct & Conflict Resolution  Academic Integrity  Information for Students  Resources for International Students
By enrolling at Marymount University, you agreed to uphold the principles of honor set forth by the Academic Integrity Code. As an international student, it is important to recognize that failing to uphold the Academic Integrity Code may result in consequences that could impact your visa status.
If you are studying at Marymount University on an F-1 or J-1 student visa and are suspected of violating the Academic Integrity Code, you should contact International Student & Scholars Services (ISSS) to discuss how academic integrity penalties may affect your immigration status. 
If you are suspected of a second or third violation, it is recommended that you immediately consult with ISSS as typical penalties for these cases include separation from the University (i.e., suspension or expulsion). This scenario is also applicable to students suspected of a first violation with a proposed sanction of suspension or expulsion.
If you are separated (suspended or expelled) from the University, you may no longer be eligible for immigration sponsorship as you will not maintain enrollment at the University. It is important that you discuss possible outcomes with ISSS proactively, since your options are limited once a separation decision is final. Any information shared with ISSS prior to official University action is NOT reportable for immigration purposes, so there are no consequences in discussing your options openly and early with ISSS.
Don’t delay in scheduling an appointment with ISSS especially while the final resolution of an Academic Integrity case remains uncertain. ISSS can help you to determine your immigration options and plan ahead for different potential outcomes.
For more information, contact the International Student & Scholars Services Office (ISSS).
Academic dishonesty includes:
(703) 522-5600
