Mayo Medical School official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://ce.mayo.edu/gastroenterology/content/mayo-clinic-innovations-gastroenterology-and-hepatology-2024-ai-and-beyond

Jump to navigation

This course offers Live (in-person) and Livestream (virtual) attendance options

Course Directors: Nayantara Coelho-Prabhu, M.B.B.S., Douglas A. Simonetto, M.D., and Shounak Majumder, M.D.
September 19 - 21, 2024 - Denver, Colorado
Mayo Clinic Innovations in Gastroenterology and Hepatology 2024: AI & Beyond features exciting and promising innovations across a spectrum ranging from endoscopy techniques and devices to digital applications and artificial intelligence (AI) enabled tools for diagnosis and management of GI and hepatobiliary diseases. Trainees, clinicians, clinical investigators, researchers, computer scientists, data scientists, engineers, and healthcare innovators interested in an up close look at the landscape of current and future innovations in gastroenterology and hepatology will interact with known experts and cutting-edge researchers.
Mayo Clinic Innovations in Gastroenterology and Hepatology 2024: AI and Beyond is now accepting applications for our Pitch Competition. Anyone is invited to submit preclinical to clinical proposals or ideas focused on GI and hepatology. Competition is open to Physicians, Scientist/Researcher/PhD, Data Scientists, Biomedical Engineers, Clinicians, Trainees, and Clinical Investigators. Complete this submission form by May 30, 2024, to be considered.
The 2024 Innovations in Gastroenterology & Hepatology: AI & Beyond will feature a poster session and oral presentations of the top submitted abstracts with the goal of sharing knowledge, showcasing participants’ work, and stimulating dialogue among course attendees. 
Abstracts can feature interesting cases, data-driven original research, describe innovative clinical programs or projects related to innovation and artificial intelligence. The top 4 abstracts will be invited to orally present their work at the live course (10 min presentation + 5 min for Q&A). Participants are also encouraged to submit projects highlighting programs and initiatives that impact the practice, education, research, and administrative environments in health care, and abstracts that provide evidence and successful models for engaging targeted stakeholders and constituents and advancing health care delivery through innovation.
We invite you to take advantage of the unique opportunity and submit an abstract to be presented during the 2024 Innovations in Gastroenterology & Hepatology: AI & Beyond. Complete this submission form by May 30, 2024 to be considered.
Physicians, Scientists, Researchers, PhD's, Data Scientists, Biomedical Engineers, Clinicians, Residents, Fellows, and Clinical Investigators.
Upon completion of this activity, participants should be able to:
Attendance at any Mayo Clinic course does not indicate or guarantee competence or proficiency in the skills, knowledge or performance of any care or procedure(s) which may be discussed or taught in this course.
GI Innovations Workshop – Exploration and EntrepreneurshipRena F. Hale, Ph.D., Mayo Clinic Entrepreneurial EducationManik Aggarwal, M.B.B.S., Mayo Clinic Rochester – GastroenterologyKathryn A. Schmidt, M.D., Mayo Clinic Rochester – Gastroenterology
Innovations in EndoscopyNayantara Coelho-Prabhu, M.B.B.S., Mayo Clinic Rochester – GastroenterologyElizabeth Rajan, M.D., Mayo Clinic Rochester – Gastroenterology (VIRTUAL)
Translating AI Capabilities into Endoscopy Practice:  Opportunities, Barriers, and SolutionsTyler Berzin, MD, MS, Digestive Disease Center at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center
The Digital GI ClinicLaura E. Raffals, M.D., Mayo Clinic Rochester – GastroenterologyVictor G. Chedid, M.D., M.S., Mayo Clinic Rochester – Gastroenterology
Remote Care in Chronic Liver Disease: Where Are We and How Far Can We Go?Doug A. Simonetto, M.D., Mayo Clinic Rochester – Gastroenterology
Hospital-At-Home: Meeting Acutely Ill Patients Where They AreMichael J. Maniaci, M.D., Mayo Clinic Florida – Hospital/Internal Medicine
Artificial Intelligence in Inflammatory Bowel Disease: How Will It Change Our Practice?William A. Faubion Jr, M.D., Mayo Clinic Arizona – Research
GI Care in the Metaverse: Virtual Reality as Therapeutic ToolIris Wang, M.D., Mayo Clinic Rochester – Gastroenterology
Machine Learning-enabled Decision Support tools in the Care of Liver Transplant PatientsMamatha Bhat MD, MSC, PHD, FRCPC, Bhat Liver Lab
Leveraging Generative Artificial Intelligence in Gastroenterology CareVictor G. Chedid, M.D., M.S., Mayo Clinic Rochester – Gastroenterology
Image Based AI Applications in GastroenterologyTyler Berzin, MD, MS, Digestive Disease Center at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical CenterAndrew C. Storm, M.D., Mayo Clinic Rochester – Gastroenterology
Pitch CompetitionModerators:Raseen Tariq, M.B.B.S., Mayo Clinic Rochester – GastroenterologyTiffany Wu, M.D., Mayo Clinic Rochester – Transplant HepatologyJudges:William A. Faubion J, M.D., Mayo Clinic Arizona – ResearchRena F. Hale, Ph.D., Mayo Clinic Entrepreneurial EducationElizabeth Rajan, M.D., Mayo Clinic Rochester – Gastroenterology (VIRTUAL)
The GI Innovator’s ToolkitRena F. Hale, Ph.D., Mayo Clinic Entrepreneurial EducationShounak Majumder, M.D., Mayo Clinic Rochester – Gastroenterology
Software As Medical Device: What Does a Gastroenterologist Need to Know In 2024Darrell S. Pardi, M.D., Mayo Clinic Rochester – Gastroenterology
Understanding the Business of Digital Product DevelopmentManu Nair, Mayo Clinic Rochester – Corporate Development
Solving Obesity: From Idea to Product to CompanyAndres J. Acosta, M.D., Ph.D., Mayo Clinic Rochester – Gastroenterology
Leading Change with the Growth Mindset: Dos and Dont'sLaura E. Raffals, M.D., Mayo Clinic Rochester – Gastroenterology
Innovations in GI and Liver CancersDarrell S. Pardi, M.D., Mayo Clinic Rochester – GastroenterologyIris Wang, M.D., Mayo Clinic Rochester – Gastroenterology
AI-based Approaches for Detection of Esophageal CancerChamil C. Codipilly, M.D., Mayo Clinic Rochester – Gastroenterology
Innovations In Early Detection of Pancreatic CancerShounak Majumder, M.D., Mayo Clinic Rochester – Gastroenterology
Treatment of GI Cancers: Emerging Therapies with Future ImpactThor R. Halfdanarson, M.D., Mayo Clinic – Medical Oncology
The Current Landscape of Multicancer Detection Blood TestsJohn B. Kisiel, M.D., Mayo Clinic Rochester – Gastroenterology
Developmental Endoscopy Unit: How to Re-Think Endoscopy from Farm to TableAndrew C. Storm, M.D., Mayo Clinic Rochester – GastroenterologyElizabeth Rajan, M.D., Mayo Clinic Rochester – Gastroenterology (VIRTUAL)
Discounted rooms are available at Le Méridien Denver Downtown: 
Single/Double Occupancy: $289/nightSuites: $589/nightReserve your room online any time or call 1(303)893-1888and reference the group Mayo Clinic 2024 - Innovations GIHEP to reserve via phone. 
Reservations must be made by August 27, 2024, or before the group rooms are sold out, whichever comes first.  Prevailing rates may apply after this date or when the group rooms are sold out, whichever occurs first. Rooms are subject to availability.
Group rates apply three days prior to and three days after the course dates, based on availability.
All travel and lodging expenses are the sole responsibility of the individual registrant.

Accreditation StatementIn support of improving patient care, Mayo Clinic College of Medicine and Science is jointly accredited by the Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education (ACCME), the Accreditation Council for Pharmacy Education (ACPE), and the American Nurses Credentialing Center (ANCC) to provide continuing education for the healthcare team.
Credit Statement(s):AMAMayo Clinic College of Medicine and Science designates this live activity for a maximum of 18.25 AMA PRA Category 1 Credits™. Physicians should claim only the credit commensurate with the extent of their participation in the activity.American Board of Internal Medicine (ABIM)Successful completion of this CME activity, which includes participation in the evaluation component, enables the participant to earn up to 13.50 MOC points in the American Board of Internal Medicine’s (ABIM) Maintenance of Certification (MOC) program. It is the CME activity provider’s responsibility to submit participant completion information to ACCME for the purpose of granting ABIM MOC credit.American Board of Surgery (ABS)Successful completion of this CME activity enables the learner to earn credit toward the CME requirement of the American Board of Surgery’s Continuous Certification program. It is the CME activity provider's responsibility to submit learner completion information to ACCME for the purpose of granting ABS credit.Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of CanadaThrough an agreement between the Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education and the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada, medical practitioners participating in the Royal College MOC Program may record completion of accredited activities registered under the ACCME’s “CME in Support of MOC” program in Section 3 of the Royal College’s MOC Program.Other Healthcare Professionals:A record of attendance will be provided to all registrants for requesting credits in accordance with state nursing boards, specialty societies or other professional associations.
For disclosure information regarding Mayo Clinic School of Continuous Professional Development accreditation review committee member(s) and staff, please go here to review disclosures.
Mayo Clinic Innovations in Gastroenterology and Hepatology 2024: AI and Beyond is excited to offer commercial support offerings including exhibitor, sponsorship, and non-cme educational sessions/product theater opportunities! Please review the commercial support prospectus. 
If you are interested in exhibiting, please complete the Letter of Agreement.If you are interested in Sponsoring or hosting a Non-CME Educational Session (product theater) please email Kris Jones.
 
Please update your profile to let us know if you have dietary restrictions or access requirements. 
To claim credit for livestream participation in this course, learners must view the content during the hours posted for the live activity.  This course is not approved for on-demand delivery.
Commitment to Equity, Diversity and Inclusion​ 
Mayo Clinic School of Continuous Professional Development (MCSCPD) strives to foster a learning environment in which individual differences are valued, allowing all to achieve their fullest potential. 
Cancellation and Refund Policy
View Cancellation and Refund Policy
All requests must be submitted in writing using the Contact Us Form.
Any use of this site constitutes your agreement to the Terms and Conditions of Registration.
Any use of this site constitutes your agreement to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy and Conditions of Use linked below.
Terms of Use and Privacy Policy Conditions of Use
© 1998-2024 Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research. All rights reserved.
