Medical University of South Carolina official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://web.musc.edu/innovation/digital-solution-development-awards
Innovation
The Digital Solution Development Awards are looking to inspire creativity and new ideas. Our team is looking to support ideas that use technology to to transform patient care and enhance business models. Applications are open to MUSC faculty, trainees, and/or care team members. 
*Concepts that leverage generative Artificial Intelligence are of interest. 


Please adhere to a 1000 word limit per section and attach any references if applicable.
Describe the problem that you are solving for 
Describe the concept / opportunity. 
 •Value Proposition (i.e., How does your concept solve the problem or pose an opportunity?What value are you providing?) 
•Audience (i.e., Who does your solution help? What groups are you creating value for?) 
•Impact (i.e., How would you measure the impact of your idea? Do you have a baseline to measure from? Does your solution generate revenue, decrease expenses, improve patient safety, and/or improve satisfaction?) 
•Scalability (i.e., Would other individuals, groups, or organizations find your solution useful or valuable?)
Reminder: Development experience is not required. Kindly indicate if your solution will require programming support.

If you are aware of the skills or resources needed to develop your concept, provide them here.

Note: A formal budget is not required as part of the application submission, but please be advised that the funding range for the project is set at $50,00 - $100,000.

The selection committee will work with awardees to refine the scope and budget of their concept. Up to three applications are anticipated to be selected this award cycle.

If you are aware of the skills or resources needed to develop your concept, provide them here.

Note: A formal budget is not required as part of the application submission, but please be advised that the funding range for the project is set at $50,00 - $100,000.

The selection committee will work with awardees to refine the scope and budget of their concept. Up to three applications are anticipated to be selected this award cycle.
Applications due: March 29, 2024
Notice of award: April 15, 2024
Please submit your application by completing the form linked here. 

Questions? Email: officeofinnovation@musc.edu

                            General MUSC Line
                            843-792-2300

