Mercyhurst College official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://www.mercyhurst.edu/news/mercyhurst-university-partners-vizru-integrate-cutting-edge-ai-platform-intelligence
The world of AI is burgeoning at Mercyhurst University, thanks to a new academic partnership with California-based Vizru that will bring its innovative AI platform, Rover, into operations at the university’s Center for Intelligence Research Analysis and Training (CIRAT).
Vizru representatives will be on site to deploy the platform on Monday and Tuesday, Jan. 22-23, according to Brian Fuller, CIRAT chief and director of operations for the School of Intelligence, Computing, and Global Politics. The technology will introduce Mercyhurst students to a whole new dynamic in performing analytics for clients.
“Rover is a special purpose research and analysis environment that bridges the power of Generative AI with embedded security for delivering military-grade AI for the data intelligence team,” explained Shankar Devarajan, Vizru COO and CMO. “As an advanced Generative AI bot that transcends boundaries, it can seamlessly analyze both public data and datasets within firewalls and operate as a comprehensive self-analytics platform for unlocking deep and exhaustive insights securely.”
Fuller said the platform is expected to provide myriad benefits for Mercyhurst students and CIRAT clients alike.
“The Generative AI landscape is the current wild west in a virtual world, and Rover provides the technology platform for allowing CIRAT analysts a way to navigate this landscape without falling prey to the pitfalls, hallucinations, and inaccuracies of pure Generative AI,” Fuller said. “This technology will allow CIRAT to stay on the leading edge of providing timely, relevant, and accurate information and intelligence to its private sector, government, and nonprofit clients and partners, while allowing students to become trained in the utilization and operational processes of Generative AI.”
Devarajan elaborated on the student training component, which will focus on:
1) AI Analyst Program: A comprehensive training on how to effectively use AI for data intelligence, associative reasoning, contextualization, and extracting insights.
2) Security and Risk: The training also will include a module that will provide an overview of security, compliance, as well as risks of relying on AI insights.
3) AI Data Engineer Program: This advanced module is for students who want to understand how to develop AI modules. Students will be provided training on developing new and extending existing data intelligence applications using Vizru's Zero-code Development Platform, ZEOS, and combining LLM/ML models, multi-dimensional databases, and embedded security.  
“This joint effort ensures that Mercyhurst students are equipped with state-of-the-art tools and technologies, fostering innovation and expertise within the realm of artificial intelligence,” Devarajan said.
About Vizru: Vizru has built the world's first Zero-Code Platform that delivers full-stack AI applications at scale, democratizing innovation and accelerating digital transformation. Visit vizru.com. 
501 East 38th StreetErie, Pennsylvania 16546
814-824-2000
