Missouri University of Science and Technology official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://csts.mst.edu/
By studying contemporary controversies, historical transformations, scientific and technical communication, policy issues, and ethical questions, the Center advances research in the areas in which science and society intersect, supports work that presents scientific ideas to general audiences, and establishes opportunities for faculty and students to improve their abilities to convey the significance of their work to the public.  The creation of programs and research that integrate science, technology, and social concerns increases the impact of research programs and prepares S&T students to be educators and ambassadors to the public on the vital role science and technology play in all our lives.
Registration: https://mst.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_1B2yrf2W15jkrSR
Preliminary: AI and You Program
The Missouri S&T Center for Science, Technology and Society invites proposals for paper presentations, poster sessions, and panel discussions for the Spring 2024 conference, Artificial Intelligence and You: The Social and Human Dimensions of AI. 
With the rise of the use of generative AI in most facets of human life, scholars, practitioners, and the general public should pause frequently to ask questions about the technologies that humans are rapidly allowing to have more and more agency over our daily lives. 
What is AI? What does it mean to be artificial? How is intelligence created? What are the advantages and disadvantages when data gathered by artificial intelligence impacts human decision-making in areas such as healthcare, personal security, or consumerism? What do you do when your smart device tells you to breathe or move or sleep and what does this suggest about the future of human agency? 
Please register for the Conference https://mst.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_1B2yrf2W15jkrSR
For more information, please see our event page Events
If you have any questions, please contact the Director of the CSTS, Dr. Kathleen Sheppard (sheppardka@mst.edu).

                    Missouri S&T is an equal opportunity/access/affirmative action/pro-disabled and veteran employer and does not discriminate on the basis of sex in our education
                    programs or activities, pursuant to Title IX and 34 CFR Part 106. For more information, see S&T's Nondiscrimination Policy or Equity and Title IX.
                    
                    © 2023 Curators of the University of Missouri.

