Montana State University - Northern official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://www.msun.edu/otle/techsnacks.aspx






 Site Menu expand
 
Tech Snacks are short, focused professional development sessions covering instructional
                                    technology, pedagogical techniques, online learning, and more—delivered in 30-minute chunks. You can download PDF handouts from past Tech Snacks
                                    sessions below.
Feb. 16, 2024 — A month into the semester, it can feel like you've really hit your
                                    groove — or like you need to find some new strategies to maintain student attention
                                    and your own motivation. This week, we discussed a foundational but often-overlooked
                                    classroom strategy ("anticipatory sets") as well as one strategy for improving the
                                    authenticity and depth of discussions (the Real Talk method). 
Click here for a PDF of this handout.
Feb. 9, 2024 — How can we sustain interest in Northern's programs and continue attracting
                                    students? This week, we invited MSUN's Director of Recruiting, Jessica Fagerbakke,
                                    and the recruiting specialists to Tech Snacks as requested by faculty to discuss collaboration
                                    ideas and strategies for recruiting moving forward. 
Click here for a PDF of this handout.
Jan. 26, 2024 — One of the current, most talked about trends in higher education is
                                    the exploration of generative AI and how it can be useful for students and instructors
                                    in the classroom. This week, we discussed two new AI-based Tech Tools that faculty
                                    might find useful for their teaching practices: Educaplay and Diffit. 
Click here for a PDF of this handout.
Jan. 19, 2024 — This week, OTLE hosted the new Vande Bogart Library Director, Sarah
                                    Velk, as well as Scott Guyant (Library Tech II). They provided an overview of what
                                    the library has to offer and spent some time collecting ideas about how the library
                                    can help faculty in their teaching, research, and service endeavors. 
Click here for a PDF of this handout. 
Jan. 12, 2024 —This week, OTLE was asked by faculty to host a "check-in" to chat about the start
                                 of the semester. OTLE also inquired with faculty about Tech Snacks topics they'd like
                                 to see for the upcoming semester.
There was no handout this week. 
Dec. 8, 2023 — This week, we wrapped up the semester by checking in with faculty and
                                    discussing some updates on the MUS LMS Transition to Canvas. We brainstormed some
                                    timeline ideas and training opportunities with faculty so we can better serve them
                                    during the transition.
There was no handout this week. 
Dec. 1, 2023 — This week, OTLE was joined by the co-chairs of the Gen Ed Committee,
                                    Dr. Gwen Hart and Dr. Kasthuri Udayakumar, as they shared the findings from last year's
                                    Gen Ed Assessment Cycle. They also covered the submission process for this year's
                                    cycle.
There was no handout this week. 
Nov. 17, 2023 — By faculty request, we invited Institutional Research Director Jay
                                    Howland to join us for a day of Tech Snacks sessions about MSUN institutional data,
                                    Montana University System data, and how to navigate the various dashboards to get
                                    some of your questions answered. 
Click here for a PDF of this handout.
Nov. 3, 2023 — For Tech Snacks this week, we shared a session from the most recent
                                    Accessibility Summer Camp (ASC) Conference. Accessibility in education is a critical and ever-present issue, and the ASC is
                                    a great resource that we'd like to introduce. 
Click here to access the recordings of this year's ASC sessions.
Oct. 27, 2023 — Dr. Grant Olson lead a workshop exploring how performance techniques
                                    (including aspects of the Alexander Technique) can be used to help instructors assess,
                                    evaluate, and modify their physical presence for effective teaching practice. We took
                                    a look at how posture and nonverbal gestures affect vocal stability and classroom
                                    engagement. 
There was no handout this week.
Oct. 20, 2023 — Once per semester, OTLE likes to provide a synopsis of what's going
                                    on in the SoTL (Scholarship of Teaching and Learning) world. We discussed some interesting
                                    themes we saw in SoTL studies and then did a quick review of three articles that may
                                    have useful perspectives and strategies for your own teaching. Some of the key themes
                                    include: aligning student and instructor views of learning environments; the impact
                                    of note-taking on learning; and managing digital distraction in the classroom. 
Click here for a PDF of this handout.
Oct. 13, 2023 — As a part of MSUN's Microsoft Office365 license, all students, faculty,
                                    and staff have access to the Microsoft Suite, which includes a wide variety of apps
                                    that you can use both on and off campus. Some of these tools can be used to enhance
                                    your teaching and streamline your interactions with students, while others can simply
                                    make your life a little easier, especially when it comes to collaboration. This week,
                                    we dove into Whiteboards, Bookings, Scheduling Poll in the Outlook Calendar, some
                                    obscure Outlook settings, PowerAutomate, and more.
Click here for a PDF of this handout.
Oct. 6, 2023 — This week, OTLE wanted to hear from faculty about the upcoming transition
                                    away from Brightspace to a new LMS called Canvas. This transition is slated to take
                                    place by/before Summer Semester 2025, but we will likely have the option to switch
                                    sooner. What timeline would you prefer (sooner or later)? What kinds of support will
                                    you need? 
There was no handout this week.
Sep. 29, 2023 — Due to requests for support with Program Assessment plans/reports
                                    (due Sep. 30), we used Tech Snacks this week to host Program Assessment workshops
                                    in OTLE's new Faculty Training Center in Cowan Hall 103. 
There was no handout this week. 
Sep. 22, 2023 — In collaboration with the Little River Institute (LRI), OTLE hosted
                                    a guest speaker, Dwayne Lasas, who is an indigenous language revival expert and native
                                    speaker of the Cree language. Dwayne Lasas (White Buffalo Man) uses music, math, and
                                    Indigenous traditions to develop language recovery programs. In this seminar, he shared
                                    his teaching philosophy and explored the impact of culturally relevant learning. 
There was no handout this week. 
Sep. 15, 2023 — This week, OTLE ran a two-part session. First, we provided information
                                    about the Regular & Substantive Interaction (RSI) guidelines for online instruction
                                    that have recently been adopted by the Federal Department of Education and our NWCCU
                                    accreditors. Next, we discussed the Online Learning Consortium (OLC), that offers
                                    workshops on dozens of topics related to course design. OTLE received a Perkins grant
                                    award that will cover OLC workshop fees while also providing faculty a stipend for
                                    completing the workshop. 
Click here for a PDF of the RSI handout.
Click here for more information about registering for an OLC workshop through OTLE.
Sep. 8, 2023 — Previously, OTLE hosted a Tech Snacks session on ChatGPT and DALL-E,
                                    where we gave an overview of what these generative artificial intelligence (AI) tools
                                    are capable of and the basics of how they can be used. Recently, many conversations
                                    between OTLE and faculty have revolved around generative AI and its use in the classroom.
                                    Due to popular demand, this week we discussed how faculty can both address and use
                                    generative AI with students in their courses. Good or bad, AI is here to stay. Should
                                    it be banned from the classroom or given full reign? Can we find a productive middle
                                    ground?
Click here for a PDF of this handout.
Sep. 1, 2023 — The first six weeks of the academic year present a pivotal opportunity
                                    for fostering a sense of community and belonging among students on campus. With that
                                    in mind, the MSUN Student Engagement Committee has worked to develop an intentional
                                    set of experiences that can help students connect with values that are important to
                                    our institution. This week, OTLE discussed the "First Six Weeks" program that includes
                                    many daily events and activities, each of which is aligned with a designated theme
                                    for that week. OTLE was joined by members of the MSUN Student Engagement Committee
                                    to help facilitate this discussion.
Click here for a PDF of this handout.
Aug. 25, 2023 — This week, OTLE was asked by faculty to host a "check-in" to chat
                                    about the start of the semester. OTLE also inquired with faculty about Tech Snacks
                                    topics they'd like to see for the upcoming semester.
There was no handout this week. 
Apr. 21, 2023 — This week, OTLE provided a course checklist for those who want to
                                 start working on their Brightspace course shells for the summer and/or fall semesters.
                                 We addressed some frequently asked questions about Incompletes, importing course content,
                                 editing dates, and organizing your courses.
Click here for a PDF of this handout.
Apr. 14, 2023 — Once per semester OTLE likes to provide a synopsis of what's going
                                    on in the SoTL (Scholarship of Teaching and Learning) world. We discussed some interesting
                                    themes we're seeing in SoTL journal articles, and then did a quick review of three
                                    articles that may have useful perspectives and strategies for your own teaching. 
Click here for a PDF of this handout.
Mar. 31, 2023 — As part of OTLE's self-assessment process, each year we ask students
                                    to complete a Brightspace experience survey with questions about their Brightspace
                                    training, Brightspace habits, Brightspace learning experiences, and overall Brightspace
                                    satisfaction. This year, 107 students participated in this survey: 10 high school
                                    students, 25 freshmen, 22 sophomores, 19 juniors, 24 seniors, and 6 others. We integrated
                                    some new questions this year, and we had some interesting findings. 
Click here for a PDF of this handout.
Mar. 24, 2023 — Often when introducing a new concept (e.g., "Impressionism") it's
                                    tempting to name the concept, explain it, give it a few examples, and then move on,
                                    hoping the students have internalized the meaning. The "concept attainment" technique
                                    is an inductive teaching method that reverses this process, requiring students to
                                    use logic and contrast to identify the concept themselves. We also revisited the topic
                                    of formative assessment in connection to concept attainment. 
Click here for a PDF of this handout.
Feb. 24, 2023 — Do you struggle to keep students on pace with your course and with
                                    each other? Do you worry about students who seem to get further and further behind
                                    as the semester moves along? Mastery-based instruction might be for you. This is an
                                    instructional approach in which students are required to demonstrate a certain threshold
                                    of competence with a task or concept before moving on (often at their own pace). OTLE
                                    was joined by Design Drafting / Manufacturing faculty Aaron Riggin so that he could
                                    demonstrate how he has implemented mastery learning principles into his courses, as
                                    well as what he has learned from this approach. 
Click here for a PDF of this handout.
Feb. 17, 2023 — Fear and excitement about generative AI technologies such as ChatGPT
                                    (text generation) and DALL-E (image generation) have hit the headlines hard in recent
                                    months. What is generative AI, and what are the implications for you and your students? 
Click here for a PDF of this handout.
Feb. 10, 2023 — Over 100 high school students participate in the dual enrollment program
                                    at MSU-Northern. There are different forms of dual enrollment, and lots of potential
                                    benefits to the student, your program, and to MSU-Northern. This week, OTLE was joined
                                    by Kaci Nicholson, Student Records Coordinator and Evaluator, who also coordinates
                                    Dual Enrollment. 
Click here for a PDF of this handout.
Feb. 3, 2023 — Grading can be an overwhelming task for faculty and a mystifying process
                                    for students. How do you maintain objectivity, clearly articulate criteria, and provide
                                    feedback in a timely manner? Rubrics can save time, prevent unintentional bias, and
                                    give students clear guidelines for how they're being assessed. 
Click here for a PDF of this handout.
Jan. 20, 2023 — Instructors often spend a lot of time tracking down students throughout
                                    the semester for various reasons, including student inactivity in a course and low
                                    grades. Intelligent Agents and Awards are both automated tools in Brightspace that
                                    instructors can use to reach out to students who may need it for multiple reasons,
                                    including login activity, test scores, and overall participation within a course.
Click here for a PDF of this handout.
Jan. 13, 2023 — To kick off the new semester, OTLE discussed strategies for optimizing
                                    Brightspace with faculty. We also discussed upcoming OTLE events and inquired about
                                    possible Tech Snacks topics for the upcoming semester. 
Click here for a PDF of this handout.
Dec. 2, 2022 — This week, OTLE provided a course checklist for those who want to start
                                    working on their Brightspace course shells before the start of the new semester. We
                                    addressed some frequently asked questions about Incompletes, importing course content,
                                    editing dates, and organizing your courses.
Click here for a PDF of this handout.
Nov. 18, 2022 — The MSUN library recently purchased a subscription to Kanopy, a streaming
                                    service that provides faculty, staff, and students access to 10,000+ movies, documentaries,
                                    foreign films, classic cinema pieces, independent films, and educational videos. OTLE
                                    was joined by MSUN Library Director, Patricia Dubosky, for a demonstration of this
                                    platform and a discussion about how it can be used in your courses. 
Click here for a PDF of this handout.
Nov. 4, 2022 — The Video Note Tool is a convenient feature that allows students and
                                    instructors to record and embed videos directly in Brightspace for announcements,
                                    content, discussions, assignments, and feedback. Brightspace provides auto-captioning
                                    for all videos recorded directly through the Video Note tool. For this presentation,
                                    OTLE was joined by Education faculty member Dr. Amy Smith, who demonstrated how she
                                    has been using this tool with much success in her online and hybrid courses.
Click here for a PDF of this handout.
Oct. 28, 2022 — In lieu of Tech Snacks this week, OTLE hosted streaming sessions to
                                    watch recordings from the most recent Accessibility Summer Camp (ASC) Conference. Accessibility in education is a critical and ever-present issue, and the ASC is a
                                    great resource that we'd like to introduce. 
Click here to access all of the ASC 2022 recordings. 
Oct. 21, 2022 — Have you ever wondered whether online courses are as effective as
                                    face-to-face courses, or which modality students prefer? Do you know what percentage
                                    of courses at MSUN are taught online or what proportion of our students are enrolled
                                    only online? Are you curious about the number of Montana residents who are enrolled
                                    in online programs at out-of-state institutions each year? It's hard to grasp the
                                    exact role and potential of online learning at this moment in history, but data might
                                    be able to help us get a clearer picture of trends.
Click here for a PDF of this handout. 
Oct. 14, 2022 — Have you ever had a parent call you to inquire about their child's
                                    grades in your class? Have you ever seen a "confidential" flag in DegreeWorks and
                                    wondered what exactly it meant? OTLE was joined by the Registrar, Alisha Schroeder,
                                    to address some common FERPA scenarios and discuss other registrar-related questions. 
Click here for a PDF of this handout.
Oct. 7, 2022 — OTLE has a wide variety of "gadgets" available for faculty to check
                                    out for various teaching purposes—from GoPro cameras to graphic tablets. We'll introduce
                                    the equipment we have available and show some examples of how they have been used
                                    in the past to create different learning experiences. 
Click here for a PDF of this handout.
Sept. 30, 2022 — Every semester, students are asked to fill out course evaluation
                                    surveys administered by the Provost's office. But what if you have a low student response
                                    rate or the survey questions are too generic to yield helpful input for your course?
                                    We presented some tools, strategies, and questions you can use to gather course feedback
                                    from students. 
Click here for a PDF of this handout.
Sept. 23, 2022 — Research shows that when more than one sense is accessed during a
                                    learning experience, individuals learn better, even at a very young age. When we engage
                                    students in multisensory learning, we're not only increasing their opportunities to
                                    learn effectively — we're also facilitating the development of their foundational
                                    sensory systems. 
Click here for a PDF of this handout.
Sept. 16, 2022 — MSU-Northern's faculty CBA states that three peer evaluations are
                                    required for "(1) probationary faculty in each probationary year after their first (1st) year;
                                          (2) all faculty when applying for promotion or tenure; (3) all post-tenure reviews
                                          in accordance with 7.7" (CBA Article 7.4). But what does an effective peer review look like? What can you do to ensure an effective
                                    peer review process and letter, both as the reviewer and the reviewee?
Click here for a PDF of this handout.
Sept. 9, 2022 — To kick off the new semester, OTLE presented an overview of our activities
                                    for the semester and asked for topic suggestions for future workshops and Tech Snacks.
                                    The lineup includes: weekly Tech Snacks sessions, Faculty Learning Community meetups
                                    with 1st and 2nd year faculty, the Brown Bag Lecture Series, the return of our faculty
                                    reading group, and more!
Click here for a PDF of this handout.
Apr. 29, 2022 — This week, OTLE provided a course checklist for those who want to
                                    start working on their Brightspace course shells before the start of the new semesters.
                                    We addressed some frequently asked questions about Incompletes, importing course content,
                                    editing dates, and organizing your courses. 
Click here for a PDF of this handout.
Apr. 22, 2022 — The Brightspace Pulse app is a mobile app that is available for both
                                    Android and Apple devices. During Brightspace orientation sessions, OTLE strongly
                                    encourages students to sign up for Brightspace notifications—either through text messages,
                                    emails, or the Pulse app. In our annual Brightspace survey, 67% of students who took
                                    the survey found the app helpful or very helpful. But what does it do (and not do)?
                                    What do students see? 
Click here for a PDF of this handout.
Apr. 1, 2022 — As we approach the tail end of the Spring 2022 semester, OTLE has some
                                    general updates to share with faculty. We have results from our annual student Brightspace
                                    experience survey, some new Brightspace features to brief you on, and a quick overview
                                    of the new Brightspace-Banner integration system (IPSIS) and how it will affect faculty. 
Click here for a PDF of this handout.
Mar. 25, 2022 — In the world of teaching, it's important to recognize that there are
                                    gaps between what we think we're teaching and what is actually being learned in the classroom. The continuous monitoring of these gaps, with the intent of closing
                                    them, is referred to as "formative assessment" (or sometimes less formally, "checking
                                    for understanding"). Even small formative assessment strategies can make a big difference
                                    in student learning.
Click here for a PDF of this handout.
Mar. 11, 2022 — MSU-Northern's motto is "Education that Works." Career perspectives
                                    and skill development are central to our institutional mission. Faculty can do a lot
                                    to open up students' exposure to career options and opportunities, but they can't
                                    do it all. This is where the MSUN Career Center comes in. From providing resume-building
                                    support, to organizing career fairs, to managing the co-op internship process, the
                                    Career Center does a lot to make sure that students can pursue their career goals.
                                    Lisa Moisey and Jen Henderson from the Career Center joined us to discuss what they
                                    do and how they can help you support our students. 
Click here for a PDF of this handout.
Feb. 25, 2022 — Teaching is a profession with a high learning curve. As instructors,
                                    we learn every day — through our own experimentation, from our students, and from
                                    our fellow teachers. This week, we outlined the professional development funding process
                                    at MSUN and some key PD opportunities and resources that MSUN faculty can use to grow
                                    into their roles as instructors. 
Click here for a PDF of this handout.
Feb. 18, 2022 — Last week, we discussed some common barriers students face when purchasing
                                    textbooks and course materials. The increasingly high cost of publisher textbooks
                                    is an obvious and large barrier. Open Educational Resources (OERs) and Open Textbooks
                                    can help bring down the cost of new textbooks while still providing students with
                                    robust academic materials. But where do you find them and how do you gauge their quality? 
Click here for a PDF of this handout.
Feb. 11, 2022 — The textbook adoption deadline for next semester comes up quickly
                                    and always seems to catch instructors off guard. What aspects of textbook selection
                                    should you start considering now and keep thinking about as you plan for future semesters?
                                    Sue Solomon, the Bookstore Manager at MSUN, joined us to talk about the textbook adoption
                                    process, things to consider when selecting textbooks, and common barriers our students
                                    face. 
Click here for a PDF of this handout.
Feb. 4, 2022 — Accessibility resource services and student accommodations can feel
                                    like a bit of a black box to instructors. How do students ask for an accommodation?
                                    Who decides if an accommodation is reasonable? What services are available to help,
                                    and what is the instructor's responsibility in all this? Johnna Antonich, the Accessibility
                                    Resource Coordinator at MSUN, joined us to talk about the process and to discuss some
                                    common barriers for students with disabilities. 
Click here for a PDF of this handout.
Jan. 28, 2022 — Do you ever feel like you're just marching through the textbook without
                                    a great sense of what students are and aren't understanding? Are there times when
                                    you feel more like an activity designer or entertainer than a teacher? Backward Design
                                    -- based on Wiggins and McTighe's often-cited work Understanding by Design -- is a curriculum building concept that can guide you through some of these common
                                    pitfalls and dilemmas. 
Click here for a PDF of this handout.
Jan. 21, 2022 — Each year, OTLE conducts a Brightspace experience survey, and one
                                    of the common themes that students mention is the Brightspace gradebook. Students
                                    consider gradebook organization one of the most important aspects of their Brightspace
                                    experience. This week, OTLE sat down with faculty to answer questions and provide
                                    a list of gradebook tips for keeping the gradebook in tip-top shape.
Click here for a PDF of this handout. 
Dec. 3, 2021 — This week, OTLE provided a course checklist for those who want to get
                                    their Brightspace course shells in order before the holidays. We addressed some frequently
                                    asked questions about Incompletes, importing course content, editing dates, and organizing
                                    your courses. 
Click here for a PDF of this handout. 
Nov. 19, 2021 — Once per semester OTLE provides a synopsis of what's going on in the
                                    SoTL (Scholarship of Teaching and Learning) world. This time around, we discussed
                                    some interesting themes we're seeing in SoTL journal articles and reviewed three articles
                                    that may have useful tools and strategies for your own teaching.
Click here for a PDF of this handout. 
Nov. 5, 2021 — We all have our own habits and pet peeves when it comes to slideshow
                                    presentations. Preferences aside, it's important to remember that the features we
                                    decide to use (or not use) have accessibility implications for students with disabilities.
                                    OTLE has some basic recommendations to help you make your slideshows more accessible
                                    for everyone. 
Click here for a PDF of this handout.
Oct. 29, 2021 — As academic advising season approaches, it's important to know a bit
                                    about how the federal financial aid system for higher education works. There are a
                                    number of financial aid implications to consider as students register for classes.
                                    Cindy Small, the Director of MSUN's Financial Aid Office, joined us for an overview
                                    and a chance for faculty to ask questions.
Click here for a PDF of this handout.
Oct. 22, 2021 — This semester (and previous semesters) has been challenging for students,
                                    faculty and staff for many reasons. This week, we had an open discussion and presentation
                                    about mental health and burnout with Amber Spring, our Student Health Counselor on
                                    campus and Kalin Amende, a faculty member from the Counselor Education Graduate Program.
There was no handout this week.
Oct. 15, 2021 — This week, OTLE hosted a mid-semester check-in with faculty to discuss
                                    any questions or concerns they had regarding Brightspace and e-learning in general. 
There was no handout this week. 
Oct. 8, 2021 — The Quiz tool is one of the most useful tools in Brightspace, but there
                                    are some obscure settings, options, and quirks that you may not be aware of that can
                                    help you develop quizzes that best suit your needs.
Click here for a PDF of this handout. 
Oct. 1, 2021 — This semester, OTLE's Faculty Reading Group is reading Understanding by Design by Grant Wiggins and Jay McTighe. An important question that this framework poses
                                    is: What does it mean to "understand" something? "The Six Facets of Understanding"
                                    give us categories that help make it easier to recognize student understanding. Each
                                    facet helps enforce the idea that students must use their knowledge to perform effectively
                                    in order to prove their understanding of something. 
Click here for a PDF of this handout. 
Sept. 24, 2021 — As of April 2022, the MSU campuses will no longer have access to
                                    Box, our current cloud-based file-sharing program. Instead, you are encouraged to
                                    use OneDrive, which is available through Microsoft Office 365. All students, faculty
                                    and staff have free access to Office 365.
Click here for a PDF of this handout. 
Sept. 17, 2021 — Today's traditional-aged college students range from ages 18-23,
                                    and they fit into a generational cohort many are calling "Generation Z." Studies have
                                    found some interesting trends that set Gen Z apart from previous generations. The
                                    purpose of this discussion is not to group students together under their generational
                                    stereotypes, but to present some general ideas and realities that many Gen Z students
                                    face. These realities have implications for students' learning styles and the ways
                                    in which we might teach them and communicate with them. 
Click here for a PDF of this handout.
Sept. 10, 2021 — Accessibility and universal design are growing concerns in higher
                                    education, and they can seem overwhelming for instructors. The easiest way to tackle
                                    accessibility is to start with small, actionable changes. To help you out, OTLE has
                                    designed an accessibility series that we'll return to several times throughout the
                                    year. Each time we'll address a discrete set of topics and provide a step-by-step
                                    checklist to support you. 
Click here for a PDF of this handout.
Sept. 3, 2021 — This week in Tech Snacks, we had a variety of Brightspace updates
                                    to show and some announcements about activities that OTLE is planning for the upcoming
                                    semester. We also had a check-in with faculty to find out what you all would like
                                    to see this semester! 
There was no handout this week.  
Apr. 23, 2021 — Marianne Hoppe from ITS joined us for a brief update on some technology
                                    changes on campus, as well as some important security reminders and a short Q&A.
Click here for a PDF of this handout. 
Apr. 16, 2021 — Teaching in Summer 2021? This week in Tech Snacks, we provided a checklist
                                    for faculty who are preparing for summer courses and we addressed some frequently
                                    asked questions about importing course content, editing dates, and organizing your
                                    courses. 
Click here for a PDF of this handout.
Mar. 26, 2021 — Once per semester OTLE provides a synopsis of the SoTL (Scholarship
                                    of Teaching and Learning) world. This time around we presented some interesting themes
                                    we are seeing in SoTL journal articles and gave a quick review of three articles that
                                    may have useful insights and tools for your own teaching practice. 
Click here for a PDF of this handout. 
Mar. 22, 2021 — Have you ever seen a beautifully designed slideshow or poster and
                                    thought to yourself, "Wow, I wish I had the talent and time to make something like
                                    that!"? These days, visual design matters a lot, and many of us feel woefully behind
                                    the curve. Luckily, there's an online program that was created precisely for those
                                    of us who don't have the money or mental bandwidth to invest in complicated graphic
                                    design software. 
Click here for a PDF of this handout.
Mar. 12, 2021 — As part of OTLE's self-assessment process, each year we ask students
                                    to complete a Brightspace experience survey about their device usage, Brightspace
                                    habits, and open-ended questions about their experiences as Brightspace users. This
                                    year we had 78 responses!
Click here for a PDF of this handout.
Feb. 26, 2021 — Tests and papers are common ways to evaluate learning, but they don't
                                    always capture what students know and they don't usually motivate students to show you what they have learned, through their own eyes. However, the practice of building
                                    opportunity for student choice into your assignments can address some of these problems.
                                    This week, we showed a brief presentation by MSUN English faculty member Valerie Guyant
                                    about how she has built student choice into her assessments, and how that has generated
                                    a lot of high-quality student work. 
Click here for a PDF of this handout.
Feb. 19, 2021 — Have you ever wondered how to optimize your search with the MSUN Library
                                    databases? Are you interested in accessing your Montana Library2Go or Interlibrary
                                    Loan account? This week in Tech Snacks, we set up a Q&A with our MSUN Instruction/Reference
                                    Librarian, Belinda Potter, to help you address questions like these. See the following
                                    YouTube videos for a deeper dive into your Library resources.
How to Find a Physical Book in the Library
Searching Opposing Viewpoints
How to Use the Library Databases
Locating and Using Credo Reference (Database of Encyclopedias)
Feb. 5, 2021 — Lately, we've seen a lot of media coverage on a company named Chegg,
                                    the "$12 Billion Company [...] Getting Rich Off Students Cheating Their Way Through Covid." Originally, Chegg was most broadly known as a digital and physical textbook rental
                                    platform for students. However, it has also developed an online tutoring division
                                    called Chegg Study, which gives students access to homework help and archives of assignment
                                    solutions. While these services may seem harmless at first glance, some of them have
                                    opened the door for wide-scale cheating across college campuses.
Click here for a PDF of this handout.
Jan. 29, 2021 — This week, we took a deep dive into the two main video conferencing
                                    tools used at Northern: Webex and Zoom. OTLE has also recently added a Webex Integration
                                    with Brightspace that can make scheduling class meetings much easier.
Click here for a PDF of the Webex handout.
Click here for a PDF of the Zoom handout. 
Nov. 13, 2020 — Nearly every time we ask faculty if there's anything we can help with,
                              we hear some iteration of: "I'd love a checklist because I feel like I'm forgetting
                              everything right now." In that spirit, we have come up with a checklist that outlines
                              the steps for rolling over Brightspace course shells and making sure everything is
                              updated in your spring courses.Click here for a PDF of this handout.
Nov. 6, 2020 — Have you ever had a student who struggled to stay focused when reading?
                              Or perhaps a student who struggled to process reading assignments but easily remembered
                              every word you said in lecture? The docReader tool is designed to help students with
                              barriers like these by integrating a number of accessibility and study-aid features
                              into Brightspace. Watch this video demonstration.Click here for a PDF of this handout.
Oct. 30, 2020 — “Zoom Fatigue” is real, and we’re all feeling it! Getting remote students engaged
                                 on the other side of a Zoom or Webex screen can be a challenge, especially this far
                                 into the semester. Is there anything we can do to increase remote students’ interest
                                 and attention? Click here for a PDF of this handout.
Oct. 23, 2020 — In lieu of Tech Snacks this week, OTLE facilitated a Faculty Advisor
                              Training workshop. Please consult the Faculty Advisor Resources page.
Oct. 9, 2020 — Grading can be an overwhelming task for faculty and a mystifying process
                              for students. How do you maintain objectivity, clearly articulate criteria, and provide
                              feedback in a timely manner? Brightspace rubrics can save time, avoid unintentional
                              bias, and give students clear guidelines for how they’re being assessed.Click here for a PDF of this handout.
Oct. 2, 2020 — The web presence of academic programs is important now more than ever, as fewer face-to-face
                              recruitment events and campus tours are happening due to Covid-19. What can you do
                              to make your program webpage attractive to prospective students?Click here for a PDF of this handout.
Sept. 25, 2020 — Covid-19 has forced us to embrace more flexibility in the classroom, often in terms
                                 of pacing. In some cases, students face circumstances that are slowing their progress
                                 in class. In others, they’re asking to work ahead in anticipation of future obstacles.
                                 But how do you manage a class where students are working on different topics at different
                                 times?Click here for a PDF copy of this handout.
Sept. 18, 2020 — Brightspace’s Assignment tool upgrade has been released! At this
                              time, users can choose whether to opt in or not. This is a work in progress for Brightspace
                              but there are some nice features that will make creating new Assignments easier and
                              more streamlined.Click here for a PDF copy of this handout.
Sept. 11, 2020 —Have you ever had a parent call you to inquire about their child's grades in your
                                 class? Have you ever seen a "confidential" flag in DegreeWorks and wondered what exactly
                                 it meant? The Registrar addresses some common FERPA scenarios and discusses other
                                 registrar-related questions you're wondering about.Click here for a PDF copy of this handout.
Sept. 4, 2020 — MSU-Northern recently got an institutional license to Zoom: How does it measure
                                 up to Webex? Which videoconferencing service best fits your needs? Click here for a PDF copy of this handout.
March 6, 2020 — Curiosity is the desire for new knowledge, information, experiences, or stimulation
                                 to resolve gaps in our understanding or to experience the unknown. When genuine curiosity
                                 is triggered in students, they’re motivated to fill in their knowledge gap. So how
                                 do we generate curiosity in the classroom? What activities or prompts can get students
                                 excited about their knowledge gaps?Click here for a PDF copy of this handout.
February 21, 2020 — With more than a third of the semester behind us already, it’s critical to ensure
                                    that struggling students get the feedback and support that they may need. Early feedback
                                    and intervention strategies play a critical role in students’ academic success and
                                    retention.Click here for a PDF copy of this handout.
February 14, 2020 — Service is an important part of the promotion and tenure process, but where do you
                                 even start? What committees exist, and what are their functions? How can you get involved,
                                 and what can committees accomplish?Click here for a PDF copy of this handout.
February 7, 2020 — TurnItIn is a powerful tool in Brightspace for detecting plagiarism, checking citations,
                              and identifying sources. But are you using it correctly and to its full potential? Click here for a PDF copy of this handout.
January 31, 2020 — Accessibility resource services and student accommodations can feel like a bit of
                              a black box to instructors. How do students ask for an accommodation? Who decides
                              if an accommodation is reasonable? What services are available to help, and what is
                              the instructor’s responsibility in all this? Johnna Antonich, the new Accessibility
                              Resource Coordinator at Northern explains the process.Click here for a PDF copy of this handout.
January 24, 2020 — In the Office of Teaching & Learning Excellence, we try not to buy into technology
                              hype without clear use cases and learning objectives. So far this year we’ve been
                              playing with a few new tools that we think have a lot of potential for student engagement,
                              both in and out of the classroom.Click here for a PDF copy of this handout.
November 22, 2019 — Burnout can happen in any occupation, but is most common among social workers, medical
                              professionals, law enforcement officers... and educators. Burnout has both personal
                              and structural factors. This is not a problem we can solve with 15 minutes and a handout,
                              and it’s not something that can be fixed without institutional action. Let's start
                              the conversation!
Nov. 15, 2019 — Military veteran students face a lot of extra hurdles and challenges that the rest
                              of us may not even be aware of. Josh Gomez from Veterans Services addresses what faculty
                              and staff can do to help veterans succeed at MSU-Northern.Click here for a PDF copy of this handout.
Nov. 1, 2019 — Effective classroom management isn’t something that just happens naturally! It requires
                              the intentional use of non-verbal communication, instructor personality, classroom
                              policy, and many other subtle factors. We discuss some specific behaviors and habits
                              that can help.Click here for a PDF copy of this handout.
Oct. 25, 2019 — Smartphones can be powerful productivity tools, and usage among college students
                                 is approaching100%. But they can also be major distractions if used inappropriately. How can we
                                 use smartphones inside — and outside — the classroom in ways that enhance learning?Click here for a PDF copy of this handout.
Oct. 11, 2019 — Student advising is critical to student success, but it’s not easy. We discuss the
                              advising process and offer a handy reference checklist that covers some of the trickier
                              aspects of advising.Click here for a link to the current version of this handout.
Sept. 27, 2019 — According to survey data of tens of thousands of college students, about 68% of undergrads
                                 and 43% of graduate students admit to cheating on a test or assignment. And cheating doesn’t come out of the blue — In a similar survey, 95% of High School students admitted
                                 to cheating. How can instructors catch or prevent cheating? More importantly, how can we cultivate a culture of academic integrity in our own
                                 classrooms?Click here for a PDF copy of this handout.
Sept. 20, 2019 — PowerPoint and Google Slides are pretty ubiquitous when it comes to structuring a
                                    lecture or presentation. But are you making the most of your presentation? Are your
                                    students retaining information and engaging with the content as well as they could
                                    be? Click here for a PDF copy of this handout.
Apr. 12, 2019 — The idea of gamification — using game elements to enhance student
                              motivation and learning — has been heavily discussed and explored over the last decade.
                              But gamification is just one category within a broader field of teaching practices
                              that integrate games and play, called (among other terms) Ludic Pedagogy. Click here for a PDF copy of this handout.
Mar. 29, 2019 — Learning experiences outside the traditional classroom setting can
                              have a number of positive impacts on students’ learning. “High-impact practices” (HIPs)
                              like cooperative education, undergraduate research, and global learning can help increase
                              academic engagement and performance, promote a sharper sense of purpose and connectedness,
                              and develop 21st century skills and perspectives among students. Click here for a PDF copy of this handout.
Mar. 1, 2019 — As part of OTLE’s self-assessment process, each year we ask students
                              to complete a Brightspace experience survey about their device usage, Brightspace
                              habits, overall Brightspace satisfaction, and open-ended questions about how they’d
                              like to see Brightspace improved. Here’s some of what we found this year. Click here for a PDF copy of this handout.
Feb. 22, 2019 — Learning technology apps, tools, and websites are constantly being
                              created, updated, closed down, sold off, or bought out. There are some great learning
                              tools available online, but it can be hard to wade through all the confusion to find
                              technology that actually solves a problem. FlipGrid, Webjets, and YoTeach are three
                              promising new tools. Click here for a PDF copy of this handout.
Feb. 15, 2019 — Monitoring and guiding student activity in Brightspace is a daunting
                              task, but there are tools that can help! Release Conditions and Intelligent Agents
                              can automate some of those tasks and provide timely feedback to encourage and motivate
                              students. Click here for a PDF copy of this handout.
Feb 8, 2019 — Brightspace has multiple analytic tools available to instructors. Knowing
                              how to access this information — and what to do with it — can help you improve your
                              course design, pinpoint trouble areas, identify at-risk students, identify and deter
                              cheating, and more! Click here for a PDF copy of this handout.
Feb. 1, 2019 — Around 70 high school students take college courses at MSU-Northern
                              for college credit each semester. There are multiple forms of dual enrollment, and
                              lots of potential benefits to the student, your program, and to MSU-Northern. Click here for a PDF copy of this handout.
Jan. 25, 2019 — Most everyone uses PowerPoint to create a lecture or presentation,
                              but maintaining student engagement can be challenging. Are there ways to enhance the
                              effectiveness and interactivity of PowerPoint presentations? What if we want to turn
                              off the projector and try some “unplugged” activities? Click here for a PDF copy of this handout.
Jan. 18, 2019 — Assessment and grading can be an overwhelming task for faculty, and
                              a mystifying process to students. How do you maintain objectivity, clearly articulate
                              grading criteria, and provide feedback in a timely manner? Grading rubrics can save
                              time, avoid unintentional bias, and give students clear guidelines for how they’re
                              being assessed. Click here for a PDF copy of this handout.
 
MSU-Northern Office Hours:
8:00am-5:00pm, 
		Monday-Friday
 
Office of Teaching and Learning Excellence
MSU-NorthernP.O. Box 7751Havre, MT 59501-7751Cowan Hall 104406.265.3767406.265.3701brightspace@msun.edu
