Mount Sinai School of Medicine official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://libguides.mssm.edu/ai/events
More Events from Scholarly Technologies Coming Soon!
Wednesday, July 12th, 2023
11:00 AM - 12:00 PM (EDT) via Zoom
Generative AI in Education and Research: Exploring Applications, Strengths, and Impact
Join us for the first event in the Faculty Development Series on Generative AI in Research and Education. Dr. Thomas Fuchs, Mount Sinai's Dean for Artificial Intelligence and Human Health, will guide us through the foundational aspects of AI, its applications, strengths, and impact on learning and research in health.
After this webinar participants will be able to:
This session is open to the entire Mount Sinai community. We encourage faculty from all disciplines to attend and gain valuable insights into the transformative power of AI in education and research.
Tuesday, July 18th, 2023
12:00 PM - 1:00 PM (EDT) via Zoom
Chats for Change: Bias in Artificial Intelligence
As some of the world’s most profitable companies pour resources into artificial intelligence, researchers are beginning to uncover its proclivity for bias. Join us as we explore examples, what it means for our future, and what can be done about it.
Thursday, September 14th, 2023
1:00 pm - 2:00 pm (EDT) via Zoom
AI in Teaching and Learning: Knowledge Sharing and Conversation
Come together with fellow educators to learn more about how AI tools, like large language models (e.g. ChatGPT and Bard), work in teaching, learning, and assessment.  We will start with a short presentation on models and tools, introduce the Mount Sinai groups investigating how to enable equitable and secure learning opportunities with AI, and discuss your experiences, concerns, and thoughts on the potential of AI in Mount Sinai’s educational activities.
Objectives:
Wednesday, October 4th, 2023
AI in Scholarly Activity and Publishing
Objectives
 
Tuesdays, October 3rd - October 31st, 2023
Artificial Intelligence in Medicine
Get help from a librarian through chat, email or phone

1 Gustave L. Levy PlaceNew York, NY 10029-5674
P: 212-241-6500
 © 





Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai  Privacy Policy   |   Terms and Conditions
