New York Institute of Technology official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://www.nyit.edu/student_resources/chatgpt
Search
 
Last November, OpenAI released ChatGPT, an artificial intelligence (AI) language model that generates human-like text in a way that feels conversational. When prompted to describe its capabilities, ChatGPT responded: 
ChatGPT is a large language model that can generate human-like text based on the input it receives. It can be used for a variety of tasks such as language translation, text summarization, question answering, and text generation. It can also be fine-tuned to perform specific tasks such as conversation generation, sentiment analysis, and more. (OpenAI, 2023)
The previous April, OpenAI released DALL-E 2, an artificial intelligence system that creates original images from a text description. It can also modify existing images to add and remove elements, or create stylistic variations.
The use of ChatGPT and other artificial intelligence tools is determined by the instructor of each of your courses, because different courses have different learning goals. There is no institution-wide policy regarding its use in teaching and learning.
Remember, policies will vary by course, and you need to check with each instructor before using the tools.  
New York Institute of Technology strives to create a community of students, faculty, and staff intent on teaching, learning, and researching. The foundation of academic work is intellectual integrity, credibility, and trust. A learning community can only be maintained if its members believe that their work is judged fairly and held to the highest academic and ethical standards. It is essential that all members of the New York Tech community understand our shared standards of academic honesty. More than just a series of regulations, the Academic Integrity Policy serves as a guide and resource for students and faculty for understanding these standards and their importance in the mission of the university. 

        By continuing to use the website, you consent to analytics tracking per NYIT's Privacy Statement
Accept Cookies

Long Island, NY
New York, NY
Jonesboro, AR
Vancouver, Canada
China
Contact Us
Directory
Plan Your Visit
Follow New York Tech
Donate
Jobs
 Emergency Info
©2024 New York Institute of Technology
