Nova Southeastern University official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://www.nova.edu/publications/chcs/chcs_student_handbook/29/
Nova Southeastern University Student Handbook 15 Academic Standards The university is an academic community and expects its students to manifest a commitment to academic integrity through rigid observance of standards for academic honesty. The university can function properly only when its members adhere to clearly established goals and values. Accordingly, the academic standards are designed to ensure that the principles of academic honesty are upheld. The following acts violate the academic honesty standards: •	 cheating—intentionally using or attempting to use unauthorized materials, information, or study aids in any academic exercise •	 fabrication—intentional and unauthorized falsification or invention of any information or citation in an academic exercise •	 facilitating academic dishonesty—intentionally or knowingly helping or attempting to help another to violate any provision of this code •	 plagiarism—the adoption or reproduction of ideas, words, or statements of another person as one’s own without proper acknowledgment Students are expected to submit tests and assignments that they have completed without aid or assistance from other sources. Using sources to provide information without giving credit to the original source is dishonest. Students should avoid any impropriety or the appearance thereof in taking examinations or completing work in pursuance of their educational goals. Students are expected to comply with the following academic standards: •	 Original work—Assignments, such as course preparations, exams, texts, projects, term papers, practicum, or any other work submitted for academic credit must be the original work of the student. Original work may include the thoughts and words of another author. Entire thoughts or words of another author should be identified using quotation marks. At all times, students are expected to comply with the university and/or program center’s recognized form and style manual and accepted citation practice and policy. Work is not original when it has been submitted previously by the author or by anyone else for academic credit. Work is not original when it has been copied or partially copied from any other source, including another student, unless such copying is acknowledged by the person submitting the work for the credit at the time the work is being submitted, or unless copying, sharing, or joint authorship is an express part of the assignment. Exams and tests are original work when no unauthorized aid is given, received, or used before or during the course of the examination, reexamination, and/or remediation. Students’ use of generative artificial intelligence (e.g., ChatGPT, Google Bard, DALL-E, Midjourney, etc.) or similar resources on any coursework or academic assessments without the prior permission of their faculty member, or the use of these resources in any way that violates the academic standards of NSU and/or a student’s academic program, is expressly prohibited. •	 Referencing the works of another author—All academic work submitted for credit or as partial fulfillment of course requirements must adhere to each academic program’s specific accepted reference manuals and rules of documentation. Standards of scholarship require that the writer give
 Made with FlippingBook 
RkJQdWJsaXNoZXIy NDE4MDg=
