Olive-Harvey College official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://colleges.ccc.edu/2024/02/07/get-a-solid-introduction-to-ai-through-continuing-education-courses-at-city-colleges-of-chicago/
February 7, 2024
By City Colleges of Chicago
Share this story
Classes are taught by industry experts and will be offered on the first two Saturdays of each month from March 2 until May 4
City Colleges of Chicago will offer classes in  Generative Artificial Intelligence (AI) this Spring! The classes titled, Prompt Engineering for Everyone – Non-Coding and Accelerated and Machine Learning for Leaders – Generative AI, will be offered the first two Saturdays of each month beginning March 2, through May 4, 2024.  The cost for each is $80.
“Artificial intelligence enhances efficiency and encourages creativity and collaboration so that’s why it is imperative we offer these two courses to everyone,” said Deputy Provost Stacia Edwards, City Colleges of Chicago. “Our goal is to create programs that provide the skills needed for the jobs of today and tomorrow.”
“We’re offering these two classes in AI to empower those interested in learning how to compete in the workforce of today but more urgently, to lead and evolve with the changing workforce of tomorrow,” said Executive Director Robert Clarke, City Colleges of Chicago. “The impact of these courses on students’ lives and career prospects cannot be overstated.”
AI is changing the way people and businesses operate and compete. It is revolutionizing the way we work because it is producing and creating better and faster output. AI has the potential to bring about positive changes including enhanced productivity. AI-powered technologies can also help solve complex problems and make our daily lives easier. It’s full impact is unfolding now and remains to be seen.
About the Courses:
This class is available online via Zoom.
###
 
March 22, 2024
Read City Colleges of Chicago’s March 2024 newsletter below, or click here to open it in a separate browser.
March 21, 2024
Two alumni from City Colleges of Chicago have been recognized as finalists for the Golden Apple Awards for Excellence in Teaching. Melissa Pantoja and Precious...
March 20, 2024
New Runway 606 initiative from Illinois Institute of Technology, City Colleges of Chicago, and Chicago Public Schools will reduce the time it takes to earn...
March 18, 2024
CHICAGO—(March 18, 2024) City Colleges of Chicago (CCC) Spring 2024 enrollment is up 9.2 percent from spring 2023 to spring 2024, exceeding the Illinois community...
Our Colleges
Follow Us
Sign Up for More CCC Updates
Subscribe
Dial 711 for the Telecommunications Relay Service
