Princeton University official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://citp.princeton.edu/programs/princeton-university-ai-policy-precepts/
Select Page


 
Princeton University’s Artificial Intelligence (AI) Policy Precepts is a non-partisan program designed to explore the core concepts, opportunities, and risks underlying the technology that will shape or influence federal policy making for the next ten years. The AI Policy Precepts, convened at the Princeton School of Public and International Affairs’ new center in Washington D.C., will be facilitated by faculty from Princeton’s Center for Information Technology Policy, including Arvind Narayanan, Matthew Salganik, and Mihir Kshirsagar. We are soliciting nominations for participation — please read below for more details.
 
The Spring 2024 AI Policy Precepts will explore the future of both predictive and generative AI, moving beyond familiar talking points and examining real world case studies (such as healthcare, employment, and credit), that will stimulate and guide discussions. Each of the two sessions–modeled on Princeton’s precepts–will begin with expert insights on emerging AI technology and innovations, followed by interactive dialogue to wrestle with core ideas, policy concerns, and potential solutions. The case studies will be shared with the participants in advance of the session. 
 
The AI Policy Precepts will be limited in size to (~18 participants), with participating policymakers drawn from Congressional offices and Federal agencies who are, or soon will be, confronted with complex questions around the development and governance of increasingly powerful AI systems. Participating policymakers will come away from the precepts with frameworks that will help them address future challenges, as well as the opportunity to establish relationships with a cohort of policymakers grappling with these challenges. Each precept will be followed by a cocktail hour on the rooftop of our new Dupont Circle facility.
 
AI Precept I: May 17  Predictive AI
 
2 p.m. – 2:40 p.m.: Introductions & Expert Presentations
3 p.m. – 4:20 p.m.: Precept Discussion
4:30 p.m. – 4:50 p.m.: Reflections
5 p.m. – 6 p.m.: Rooftop Cocktail Hour 
Princeton SPIA in D.C., 1333 New Hampshire Ave NW, Suite 480  
 
AI Precept II: June 21 Generative AI 
 
2 p.m. – 2:40 p.m.: Introductions & Expert Presentations
3 p.m. – 4:20 p.m.: Precept Discussion
4:30 p.m. – 4:50 p.m.: Reflections
5 p.m. – 6 p.m.: Rooftop Cocktail Hour 
Princeton SPIA in D.C., 1333 New Hampshire Ave NW, Suite 480
 
Nominations: If you or a colleague would like to be considered, you may submit a nomination here: Princeton AI Policy Precepts Nomination Form.
 
Closing Date: April 5, 2024. Notifications by April 16, 2024.
 
The selected participants must be able to commit to participating in both precepts.  Participation and refreshments are free for those who are selected. Please direct any substantive questions about the program to Mihir Kshirsagar (*protected email*).   
 
« Back

Center for Information Technology Policy (CITP)
          303 Sherrerd Hall – Princeton University
*protected email*

©2024 The Trustees of Princeton University. Center for Information Technology Policy.
