Reed College official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://www.reed.edu/ctl/reflect-generative-ai.html
All faculty are strongly encouraged to clearly state their policies toward the use of generative artificial intelligence tools on their syllabi. You will need to identify the limits that make sense in your own classroom. Are you comfortable with students using ChatGPT as a brainstorming tool?  Entering a bulleted list into ChatGPT and having it generate a paper from the list? Asking ChatGPT to edit a paper for them? 
One way to think about these limits is to ask yourself what you are trying to assess in your assignments.
Is your goal to
Once you have thought about your teaching goals, craft a clear policy for your class.  The dean of the faculty office is currently recommending that faculty request some kind of citation if use of these new technologies is permitted in their classes.  You might even consider having students write an acknowledgments page for major writing assignments to accompany their bibliographies. This might include friends who edited their papers, office hour meetings with faculty, ChatGPT, or Reed tutors. 
Here are some templates for syllabus language generated by Adam Groce & Mary Ashburn Miller; the University of Delaware has some great examples of different options for syllabus language, including prohibiting AI use, using it with prior permission, or using with acknowledgment. 
We encourage all faculty to discuss their policy directly with students.  Some faculty may even choose to invite students to reflect critically on what policies and practices they think would promote learning. Here are some options for starting conversations about those boundaries and cultivate critical thinking about the uses of these technologies:
Learn more about the technology, including ethical, privacy, and equity concerns.
Consider revising your assignments to disincentivize shortcuts, to make learning goals transparent, and to prioritize student voice and ideas.
Additional resources
Back to main page
Celebrating Innovative Teaching
Technology in the Classroom
Syllabus Design Workshop & Resources
DirectorMary Ashburn MillerEliot 426503-517-7685mamiller@reed.edu
Program ManagerPhu NguyenEliot 312503-777-7267pnguyen@reed.edu
3203 Southeast Woodstock Boulevard
 Portland, Oregon 97202-8199
503-771-1112
© 2023 Reed College
