Richard Stockton College of New Jersey official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://stockton.edu/ctld/events.html
Home / Events


April
Getting Researchers Started with Cayuse Human Ethics
Date & Time: Tuesday, April 2 - 11:00 am to 12:00 noon
Description: The Office of Research and Sponsored Programs is transitioning to a new IRB system,
                                             Cayuse Human Ethics, to elevate compliance and enhance the IRB submission process.
                                             If you have current IRB submissions, or plan to conduct human subjects research, this
                                             is an excellent opportunity to familiarize yourself with this new system and get more
                                             details on how to get early access.
Helpful Resources: 
Presenter: Britny Dileo, IRB Administrator
Join Session:  https://stockton.zoom.us/j/94651140089?pwd=QlBMTHBNSUFPZDJZb1RSczUrSnd1Zz09
 
Date & Time: Thursday, April 4 - 11:30 am to 1:00 pm
Description: The first question for implementing any good project or idea is often "where do I
                                       start?" Whether you are looking for funding to support a specific proposal, or an
                                       avenue for which to share your scholarship, the best place to start is a conversation
                                       with experienced peers and colleagues. You don't want to miss this session!
Location: B-106
Faculty Overview on Ospreys Navigate (EAB)
Date & Time: Thursday, April 11 - 12:00 pm to 1:30 pm
Description: Ospreys Navigate is a student success management platform that will support Stockton
                                             University and our commitment to closing equity gaps while continuously supporting
                                             the success of all students. The platform allows faculty and staff to work together
                                             to provide comprehensive student assistance and connect students to resources throughout
                                             the campus. Moreover, Ospreys Navigate will aid us in efficiently evaluating student
                                             needs, referring students to resources/services, and closing the loop by providing
                                             feedback to ensure the students have been connected to their personalized on-campus
                                             "success network." This network provides a forum for faculty and staff to unite on
                                             the platform to collectively assist and support the student's academic, career, and
                                             personal journey. Ospreys Navigate allows faculty and staff to view student data,
                                             manage student communications, coordinate care with alerts and case management, track
                                             check-ins and student contacts within the platform, schedule appointments, and analyze
                                             reports and analytics.
Hosted by: EAB
Join Session:https://eab.zoom.us/j/95926251786?from=addon

Register @ Abigail.Laird@stockton.edu
FAWN Writing Boot Camp
Date & Time: Saturday, April 13 - 9:00 am to 3:00 pm
Description:Boot camps allow participants to write in a distraction-free, structured environment.
                                          You should bring your writing project and writing supplies (laptop, paper, notes,
                                          etc.). We do not provide food, so bring drinks, snacks and lunch. You can join us
                                          virtually using Zoom. We will email the Zoom link to all registered participants.
                                          The FAWN Blackboard course page also has the Zoom link. Registration is not necessary, though it does help us plan. Please show up and join
                                       us for any and all days, for all of the time or part of the time.
Hosted by: FAWN
Location: G-138 and Online
Learn Ultra Course Seminar for Instructors
Date & Time: April 17 & 18 @ 10:00 am
Description: In these two 60-minute sessions, the presenters will go over two primary
                                       areas: Setting up and designing a Learn Ultra courses; and using the course for flexible
                                       assessment, grading workflows, interaction, and collaboration.
Hosted by: Anthology
Register Here
Teaching with Blackboard Series: Using SafeAssign and Annotate within the Blackboard Assignment Tool
Dates & Times: Thursday, April 18 - 2:45 pm to 4:00 pm
Description: This session will show participants how to add SafeAssign when creating a Blackboard
                                             assignment to identify similarity in student writing submissions to other student
                                             papers in the SafeAssign database as well as from internet sources. We will also review
                                             Annotate, an annotation tool in the Blackboard Assignment tool, and demonstrate how
                                             to provide feedback to students using markup and annotation directly on submitted
                                             papers.
Presenter: Dennis Fotía
Join Session: https://stockton.zoom.us/j/99722554537?pwd=TjdZR1B1dE8vNFJWL2QvN28vZWRXQT09
Faculty Overview on Ospreys Navigate (EAB)
Date & Time: Friday, April 19 - 12:45 pm to 2:15 pm
Description: Ospreys Navigate is a student success management platform that will support Stockton
                                             University and our commitment to closing equity gaps while continuously supporting
                                             the success of all students. The platform allows faculty and staff to work together
                                             to provide comprehensive student assistance and connect students to resources throughout
                                             the campus. Moreover, Ospreys Navigate will aid us in efficiently evaluating student
                                             needs, referring students to resources/services, and closing the loop by providing
                                             feedback to ensure the students have been connected to their personalized on-campus
                                             "success network." This network provides a forum for faculty and staff to unite on
                                             the platform to collectively assist and support the student's academic, career, and
                                             personal journey. Ospreys Navigate allows faculty and staff to view student data,
                                             manage student communications, coordinate care with alerts and case management, track
                                             check-ins and student contacts within the platform, schedule appointments, and analyze
                                             reports and analytics.
Hosted by: EAB
Join Session:https://eab.zoom.us/j/97857373332?from=addon
On-Demand Sessions
Blackboard Original: Building your Course
Description: The tutorials will explain how to work with the Blackboard Original View interface,
                                                how to start your courses and organize your content.
Provided by: CTLD
Duration: 18:30 mins.
Access Tutorials Here
Teaching in Blackboard Learn Ultra
Description: This webinar series is designed for Instructors who are new to Blackboard Learn Ultra
                                                and are making a quick transition to deliver instruction remotely.
Provided by: Anthology
Duration: aprox. 45 minutes per session
Watch Recorded Webinars Here
Explorer Creative Pedagogy Ideas
Description: This resource briefly describes activities that afford a creative and effective
                                                approach to teaching and learning during these challenging times. Click on categories
                                                that interest you to learn about active learning strategies that are easily incorporated
                                                into your existing course structure.
Provided by: CTLD
Duration: 20 mins.
Access Resource Here
Lightboard Tutorial
Description: A lightboard consists of a glass surface illuminated by LED lights, allowing instructors
                                                to write or draw on the board while facing their audience. It enables educators to
                                                create engaging, dynamic content that can be recorded and shared digitally, fostering
                                                interactive and visually impactful learning experiences.
Created by: Philip Eaton & Barry Pemberton
Duration: 9:27 mins.
Watch Tutorial Here
AI in Higher Ed: Opportunities and Threats
Description: How will artificial intelligence (AI) tools (such as ChatGPT and Bard) affect online,
                                                blended, and digital learning in higher education? Join us for a panel discussion
                                                on the opportunities and threats associated with this emerging technology. 
Many instructors, support staff, and institutional leaders are concerned about the
                                                impact of AI on academic honesty in higher education. Others see AI as a potentially
                                                useful pedagogical tool.
Provided by: Online Learning Consortium (OLC)
Duration: 60 mins.
7 Steps To Update Courses In The Age Of Generative AI
Description: Using generative AI tools in course refresh helps faculty gain a new perspective
                                                and navigate AI platforms, increasing the likelihood of incorporating these tools
                                                into courses; this, in turn, equips students with essential AI navigational skills
                                                for improved job market readiness post-graduation.
Written by: Professor of Business Information Systems Practice and an Honors Faculty Fellow at
                                                the Neeley School of Business, Texas Christian University.
Duration: 20 mins.
Access Resource Here
Inclusive Teaching: Strategies for Engaging All Students
Description: This course will guide you through the theory of inclusive teaching and giving you
                                                practical strategies to create a classroom culture of belonging. 
Hosted by: Mentimeter.
Duration: 60 mins.
Access Course Here
Neuroscience Based Learning: Strategies for making your content stick
Description: The course covers various techniques and strategies, including memory formation, attention,
                                                and motivation. 
Hosted by: Mentimeter.
Duration: 60 mins.
Access Course Here
Schedule an appointment for personal or small group training with CTLD staff to address
                              your specific needs in designing and delivering effective learning experiences.
Schedule Training
 Previous Events
January 18 - Setting up & Managing the Blackboard Grade Center - The Blackboard Grade Center is a great tool for tracking grades and providing feedback
                                                to students about their performance and learning. You'll learn how to use the Grade
                                                Center to record and calculate grades, provide comments, and customize the Grade Center
                                                for easier use. Presenter: Dennis Fotía
January 19 - Faculty Resource Network (FRN) - The Integrated Design and Media (IDM) program at NYU Tandon will host #LTT2024 Learning
                                                to Teach Creative Technologies with Generative AI: A Virtual UnSymposium, primarily
                                                for faculty who teach art, design, music, or programming. You are welcome to register
                                                to attend. Learn more about the schedule and the speakers at https://wp.nyu.edu/ltt2024. Hosted by: The Integrated Design and Media (IDM) program at NYU Tandon School of
                                                Engineering
January 24 - Providing Accessible Course Materials with Blackboard Ally - Learn about the Blackboard Ally tool available in all Stockton Blackboard courses.
                                                 Ally helps determine the accessibility of course materials with guidance to improve
                                                accessibility. Ally generates alternative document formats beneficial for all students
                                                but critical for individuals with disabilities. Presenter: Roberto Castillo, Senior
                                                Instructional Specialist
January 29 - Career Development for Higher Education Faculty - Hosted by: AECT
February 1 - Faculty Resource Network (FRN)

The FRN membership with New York University provides Stockton faculty with access
                                                to professional development programs including lectures, symposia, intensive seminars,
                                                and visiting scholar opportunities designed to improve the quality of teaching and
                                                learning at Stockton.
To learn more about how you might benefit from FRN opportunities, join us for an informal
                                                discussion!
February 3 - FAWN Writing Boot Camp - Boot camps allow participants to write in a distraction-free, structured environment.
                                                You should bring your writing project and writing supplies (laptop, paper, notes,
                                                etc.). We do not provide food, so bring drinks, snacks and lunch. You can join us
                                                virtually using Zoom. We will email the Zoom link to all registered participants.
                                                The FAWN Blackboard course page also has the Zoom link. Registration is not necessary,
                                                though it does help us plan. Please show up and join us for any and all days, for
                                                all of the time or part of the time. Hosted by: FAWN
February 6 @ 4:30 pm - Dive Into DegreeWorks - New mobile friendly version, review degree requirements, search for courses by attribute
                                                and look ahead, plan ahead, what if. Hosted by: Center for Academic Advising
February 7 - The American Educational Research Association (AERA) Information Session
                                                   - The American Educational Research Association (www.aera.net) is the world’s largest
                                                professional organization of educational researchers, and this year’s conference will
                                                be held in Philadelphia. If you are interested in research on education or in the
                                                scholarship of teaching and learning, this is an excellent professional development
                                                opportunity. Learn more about the conference at this session. Presenter: Dr. John
                                                Young, CTLD Research Advisor
February 7 - Asynchronous Course Design: An Overview - This session will provide an overview of common issues specific to asynchronous teaching
                                                and learning as well as explore solutions to such issues. Additionally, we will discuss
                                                best practices for designing asynchronous online courses. If time permits, we will
                                                also discuss the Quality Matters rubric and the role it plays in designing a quality
                                                asynchronous online course. Presenter: Abigail Laird, Instructional Designer
February 8 - Faculty Resource Network (FRN) - NYU Teaching & Learning with Generative
                                                   AI Virtual Symposium - NYU’s Office of the Provost will be hosting a Teaching and Learning with Generative
                                                AI Virtual Symposium. You are welcome to register to attend. Learn more at https://wp.nyu.edu/2024aisymposium.
                                                In the meantime, you can view the videos from the October conference. Hosted by: NYU’s
                                                Office of the Provost
February 9 - Using SafeAssign and Annotate within the Blackboard Assignment Tool - This session will show participants how to add SafeAssign when creating a Blackboard
                                                assignment to identify similarity in student writing submissions to other student
                                                papers in the SafeAssign database as well as from internet sources. We will also review
                                                Annotate, an annotation tool in the Blackboard Assignment tool, and demonstrate how
                                                to provide feedback to students using markup and annotation directly on submitted
                                                papers. Presenter: Dennis Fotía
February 13 - Getting Published: Keys to Success - This session is designed for faculty/staff new to academic publishing.  Learn how
                                                to identify appropriate outlets to publish your work, what to expect in the manuscript
                                                review process, and ways to generate one or more manuscripts from a dissertation. Presenter:
                                                Dr. John Young, CTLD Research Advisor
February 13 - What Can Online Learning Do For Students That Face-to-Face Learning
                                                   Cannot? - This webinar will reveal the preliminary results of a qualitative study where online
                                                instructors with varying levels of experience in teaching online were asked to respond
                                                to the question, “How does online learning provide specific benefits to students that
                                                traditional classrooms don’t?”. The preliminary results of this analysis, which yielded
                                                several major themes in the benefits of online learning (e.g., flexibility, diversity,
                                                and course design) will be discussed, along with practical implications for students,
                                                faculty, and instructional designers. Hosted by: Online Learning Consortium (OLC)
February 13 - Using AI to Improve DEI in Higher Education - Join the webinar to learn how existing and emerging AI can be integrated and used
                                                to boost DEI in various areas of higher education. The problems AI can solve in higher
                                                education, ranging from creating truly inclusive and accessible classes to building
                                                equitable admissions processes and improving the entire student experience. Hosted
                                                by: Honorlock
February 14 - Life After Tenure: Mid-Career Professional Development - This session is designed for tenured faculty who are interested in developing further
                                                as a researcher. Learn about developing a research agenda, applying for external research
                                                funding, importance of academic conferences, and professional service opportunities
                                                in your field. Presenter: Dr. John Young, CTLD Research Advisor
February 14 - Microsoft Learning Accelerators - Join us for an overview of Microsoft's new learning accelerators, which provide virtual
                                                coaching and real-time feedback to learners. Use these free, dynamic tools in Microsoft
                                                Teams, the Edge browser, or in apps such as Word and PowerPoint to enhance your assignments
                                                and feedback as well as improve students' research, public speaking, literacy and
                                                math skills. Presenter: Abigail Laird, Instructional Designer
February 15 - Designing and Conducting Systematic Reviews of Research in Educational
                                                   Technology - Hosted by: AECT

February 16 - Getting Researchers Started with Cayuse Human Ethics - The Office of Research and Sponsored Programs is transitioning to a new IRB system,
                                                Cayuse Human Ethics, to elevate compliance and enhance the IRB submission process.
                                                If you have current IRB submissions, or plan to conduct human subjects research, this
                                                is an excellent opportunity to familiarize yourself with this new system and get more
                                                details on how to get early access. Presenter: Britny Dileo, IRB Administrator
February 20 - External Research Funding: Advice and Insights from the ORSP Executive
                                                   Director and CTLD Research Advisor - In this session, you’ll hear from Dr. Joseph Cronin about upcoming changes and new
                                                initiatives with ORSP and from Dr. John Young about strategies to identify and apply
                                                for opportunities to fund your research. Presenter: Dr. John Young, CTLD Research
                                                Advisor and Dr. Joseph Cronin, ORSP Executive Director
February 20 - The Future is Now: Dive into the Frontier of Generative AI with Engaging
                                                   Assignments for Mastering AI Fluency! - GenAI has forever changed how we learn, teach, work, and perhaps even play. Its capabilities,
                                                as well as student use, are here to stay and accelerating at a pace that can make
                                                even the most tech-savvy among us feel overwhelmed. But if we, as educators, don’t
                                                teach students why, how, and when to use AI, who will? In this webinar, we’ll discuss
                                                how to infuse AI requirements into your assignments and provide examples of assignments
                                                that teach AI fluency. Hosted by: Online Learning Consortium (OLC)
February 21 - Best Practices for Supporting Neurodivergent Students - In the webinar, the presenters will highlight:
What neurodiversity is and the widespread benefits of cognitive diversityThe unique challenges that neurodivergent students often face as part of the career
                                                exploration processHow career services professionals can prepare neurodivergent students for today's
                                                workforceHow to partner with and educate employers when it comes to recruiting and hiring neurodivergent
                                                studentsAnd more!Presenters: Jhillika Kumar and Conner Reinhardt, Co-Founders of Mentra
February 22 - Q&A Session About The IRB - Are you planning a research study that involves collecting data from participants?
                                                Have your questions answered by the former interim chair of the Institutional Review
                                                Board (IRB). Presenter: Dr. John Young, CTLD Research Advisor
February 27 - Design Thinking with AI for Online Instruction - This webinar will present several ways that AI-powered tools can be utilized to encourage
                                                collaborative learning reflection among faculty, including facilitating online discussions,
                                                providing personalized feedback, analyzing data, and creating virtual communities
                                                to connect and share resources. Strategies for promoting a culture of sharing best
                                                practices and ways that institutions can encourage teachers to participate in regular
                                                professional development sessions focused on using AI-powered tools and technologies
                                                will also be shared. Hosted by: Online Learning Consortium (OLC)
February 29 - FRN - TeachTalks: Flipping the Script: Generative AI as a Tool for Student
                                                   Writing - In this TeachTalk, professors David Cregar (Expository Writing Program) and Adam
                                                Penenberg (Online Master’s in Journalism) will share how they integrate generative
                                                AI into their writing and journalism courses, in which students explore how to use
                                                ChatGPT and similar tools effectively and ethically. Hosted by: NYU’s Office of the
                                                Provost
February 29 - Getting Researchers Started with Cayuse Human Ethics - The Office of Research and Sponsored Programs is transitioning to a new IRB system,
                                                Cayuse Human Ethics, to elevate compliance and enhance the IRB submission process.
                                                If you have current IRB submissions, or plan to conduct human subjects research, this
                                                is an excellent opportunity to familiarize yourself with this new system and get more
                                                details on how to get early access. Presenter: Britny Dileo, IRB Administrator
March 2 - FAWN Writing Boot Camp - Boot camps allow participants to write in a distraction-free, structured environment.
                                                You should bring your writing project and writing supplies (laptop, paper, notes,
                                                etc.). We do not provide food, so bring drinks, snacks and lunch. You can join us
                                                virtually using Zoom. We will email the Zoom link to all registered participants.
                                                The FAWN Blackboard course page also has the Zoom link. Registration is not necessary,
                                                though it does help us plan. Please show up and join us for any and all days, for
                                                all of the time or part of the time. Hosted by: FAWN
March 5 - Empowering Change Together: Student Perspectives on Equitable Online, Digital,
                                                   and Blended Learning -  Join us as we delve into the findings of a recent research report published by the
                                                Online Learning Consortium (OLC). In this session, the authors of the report will
                                                share their discoveries on student perceptions of digital learning, focusing on the
                                                question: “What does quality digital learning centered in diversity, equity, and inclusion
                                                look like from a student perspective?”. Hosted by: Online Learning Consortium (OLC)
March 6 - Teaching Bans, Academic Freedom, and The Future Of Higher Education - In this conversation, panelists will discuss anti-intellectualism and anti-DEI through
                                                a historical and contemporary lens. Panelists will also discuss how such efforts seek
                                                to disrupt progress gained by the enactment of DEI efforts. Finally, panelists will
                                                offer insights on navigating these challenges and their chilling effects within higher
                                                education and beyond. Hosted by: National Center for Institutional Diversity, University
                                                of Michigan
March 7 - Precepting with Confidence 
Students look to faculty for guidance not only with their scheduling to ensure their
                                                credits stay on track for graduation, but for general counseling as well. Navigating
                                                the right path for their chosen major or area of interest is crucial to their success
                                                as a student.
March 7 - Dive Into DegreeWorks - New mobile friendly version, review degree requirements, search for courses by attribute
                                                and look ahead, plan ahead, what if. Hosted by: Center for Academic Advising
March 7 - Using SafeAssign and Annotate within the Blackboard Assignment Tool - This session will show participants how to add SafeAssign when creating a Blackboard
                                                assignment to identify similarity in student writing submissions to other student
                                                papers in the SafeAssign database as well as from internet sources. We will also review
                                                Annotate, an annotation tool in the Blackboard Assignment tool, and demonstrate how
                                                to provide feedback to students using markup and annotation directly on submitted
                                                papers. Presenter: Dennis Fotía
March 8 - Mentimeter - Learning the Basics - This session will serve as an intro to Mentimeter. Learn how to: create a Menti,
                                                different Slide Types, enabling engagement, and how to share presentations. Presenter:
                                                Mattew Jong from Mentimeter
March 8 - Mentimeter - Best Practices - This session will focus on best practices of using Mentimeter: How to engage your
                                                audience, why is it important to have engagement in your presentations, and how to
                                                engage with your audience synchronously and asynchronously. Presenter: Mattew Jong
                                                from Mentimeter
March 12 - Creating Energizing Discussion & Reflection Opportunities with Thinking
                                                   Routines - In this webinar, we will explore the Harvard’s Project Zero Thinking Routines website,
                                                discuss the different categories of routines, and engage in experiential activities
                                                based on the routines. We will also explore concrete ways that the routines can be
                                                incorporated into a variety of course activities and assignments (such as formative
                                                assessments, discussions, reflections, reading responses, and more). In addition,
                                                we will discuss how thinking routines can be used in creative ways in order to provide
                                                students with multimodal opportunities to share their thinking and learning. Hosted
                                                by: Online Learning Consortium (OLC)
March 12 - The Impact of AI on College Leadership, Teaching, and Technology - The integration of AI has become not just a possibility but a necessity for colleges
                                                and universities to embrace. It’s an essential tool that helps institutions and faculty
                                                thrive, and embracing it ensures students are prepared for the workforce of tomorrow.
                                                During this 1-hour webinar, we will explore the impact of AI on college faculty, leadership,
                                                and day-to-day operations. Hosted by: ACUE
March 13 - Getting Researchers Started with Cayuse Human Ethics - The Office of Research and Sponsored Programs is transitioning to a new IRB system,
                                                Cayuse Human Ethics, to elevate compliance and enhance the IRB submission process.
                                                If you have current IRB submissions, or plan to conduct human subjects research, this
                                                is an excellent opportunity to familiarize yourself with this new system and get more
                                                details on how to get early access. Presenter: Britny Dileo, IRB Administrator
March 13 - Career Development for Educational Technology Practitioners - Hosted by: AECT
March 20 - Getting Ready for Precepting - Learn about DegreeWorks, Blackboard advising sections, and navigate registration
                                                process. Hosted by: Academic Advising

March 20 - Learn Ultra Course Seminar for Instructors - In these two 60-minute sessions, the presenters will go over two primary areas: Setting
                                                up and designing a Learn Ultra courses; and using the course for flexible assessment,
                                                grading workflows, interaction, and collaboration. Hosted by: Anthology

March 21 - Getting Ready for Precepting - Learn about DegreeWorks, Blackboard advising sections, and navigate registration
                                                process. Hosted by: Academic Advising
March 22 - FRN Digital Leadership Community of Practice Virtual Conversations - Developing Multiple Modalities for Faculty and Student Training and Integrating 3rd
                                                Party Support for Faculty Training. Presenter: Dr. Sherwood Smith, Senior Executive Director of Diversity for Engagement
                                                   & Professional Development, University of Vermont, and others.
March 22 - Faculty Strategies for Recognizing and Addressing Student Trauma - Join this faculty development session to enhance your awareness of the national crisis
                                                surrounding student well-being on college campuses. We will discuss how to recognize
                                                and address various types of trauma hindering students' academic success. We will
                                                review Stockton's resources and explore practical strategies to support students experiencing
                                                trauma in a manner that fosters a culture of well-being. We will share best practices
                                                and experiences in creating a compassionate learning environment. Presenter: Dr. Jennifer
                                                Barr, Professor of Business Administration, Marketing.
 
                                                   March 25 - Promotion File Information Session - The session is designed for faculty who are interested in learning more about the
                                                procedures and file construction process for promotion. Facilitated by: Kerri Sowers,
                                                Associate Professor of Health Science and CTLD Mentoring Faculty Fellow, and Elizabeth
                                                Pollock, Associate Professor of Chemistry and FRC Chair.
March 27 - FRN Digital Leadership Community of Practice Virtual Conversations - Training Faculty to Effectively Use Your LMS and Fostering a Consistent and Intentional
                                                Student LMS Experience. Presenter: Dr. Annie Harrison, Assistant Professor, Elementary Education, Bennett
                                                   College, and others.
March 27 - FRN - TeachTalks: Incorporating Generative AI Into Design Thinking Assignments
                                                   and Literature Review Research - Generative AI tools, like ChatGPT, are reshaping higher education as we know it.
                                                Now is the time to reflect on and rethink the many different kinds of assessments
                                                we use across disciplines. In this TeachTalks series, faculty will share their experiences
                                                using generative AI in the classroom. This session will center the deliberate integration
                                                of generative AI in student design thinking assignments and literature review research.
                                                Hosted by: NYU’s Office of the Provost
 
                                                   January 4 - PRC Prep Information Session (Open to PRC members only) - This workshop is designed for new and experienced PRC
                                                members and will focus on PRC procedures during the file review cycles. Facilitated
                                                by: Kerri Sowers, Associate Professor of Health Science and CTLD Mentoring Faculty
                                                Fellow, and Elizabeth Pollock, Associate Professor of Chemistry and FRC Chair.
January 9 - Best Practices in Syllabus Design - In this session, we'll go over best practices when creating or revising your course
                                                syllabus. Read the article on "How to Create a Syllabus" and come prepare to discuss
                                                how to draft a student-centered syllabus that can help students succeed in your course. Presenter:
                                                Roberto Castillo, Senior Instructional Specialist
January 10 - Recognizing and Responding to Microaggressions - Recently there has been much discussion about microaggressions, the subtle acts of
                                                exclusion that many people routinely experience. This interactive, virtual training
                                                will explore the ways that implicit bias – including microaggressions – manifest in
                                                our lives and impact our relationships with others. Through case studies and discussion,
                                                participants will deepen their understanding of implicit bias, learn how to identify
                                                microaggressions, and investigate strategies for responding effectively to microaggressions
                                                that they experience and commit. Participants will also learn about the NJ Law Against
                                                Discrimination and how microaggressions can contribute to a hostile work or school
                                                environment. Hosted by: The New Jersey Division on Civil Rights (DCR)
January 11 - Using The Date Management Tool in Blackboard - This session will demonstrate how to copy a previous course in Blackboard and use
                                                the date management tool to quickly review and change start, end, and due dates to
                                                adjust the course to the current semester calendar. Presenter: Roberto Castillo, Senior
                                                Instructional Specialist
January 12 - Using The Date Management Tool in Blackboard - This session will demonstrate how to copy a previous course in Blackboard and use
                                                the date management tool to quickly review and change start, end, and due dates to
                                                adjust the course to the current semester calendar. Presenter: Dennis Fotia
September 7
September 7 - Recognizing and Responding to Microaggressions - Recently there has been much discussion about microaggressions, the subtle acts of
                                                exclusion that many people routinely experience. This interactive, virtual training
                                                will explore the ways that implicit bias – including microaggressions – manifest in
                                                our lives and impact our relationships with others. Through case studies and discussion,
                                                participants will deepen their understanding of implicit bias, learn how to identify
                                                microaggressions, and investigate strategies for responding effectively to microaggressions
                                                that they experience and commit. Participants will also learn about the NJ Law Against
                                                Discrimination and how microaggressions can contribute to a hostile work or school
                                                environment. Hosted by: NJ Division on Civil Rights

September 8 - Teaching with Blackboard Series: Setting up & Managing the Blackboard
                                                   Grade Center - The Blackboard Grade Center is a great tool for tracking grades and providing feedback
                                                to students about their performance and learning. You'll learn how to use the Grade
                                                Center to record and calculate grades, provide comments, and customize the Grade Center
                                                for easier use. Presenter: Dennis Fotía
September 13 - Providing Accessible Course Materials with Blackboard Ally - Learn about the Blackboard Ally tool available in all Stockton Blackboard courses.
                                                 Ally helps determine the accessibility of course materials with guidance to improve
                                                accessibility.  Ally generates alternative document formats beneficial for all students
                                                but critical for individuals with disabilities. Presenter: Roberto Castillo, Senior
                                                Instructional Specialist
 
                                                    September 18 - Promote active learning and critical thinking with Perusall - Join us for a comprehensive workshop on the effective use of Perusall, a collaborative
                                                reading and annotation platform designed to enhance student engagement and foster
                                                active learning. Gain a comprehensive understanding of Perusall's core features, including
                                                text highlighting, annotation tools, and commenting options. Learn how to upload and
                                                organize reading materials within the platform, ensuring a seamless reading and collaborative
                                                annotation experience for your students. Presenter: Michelle Wendt, Technology Integration
                                                Specialist & Adjunct Faculty
September 20 - Google Sites for Your Classroom - Discover the power of Google Sites in education! This workshop explores how to create
                                                interactive and visually appealing websites using Google Sites. From class websites
                                                to student projects, participants will learn how to integrate multimedia, collaborate
                                                effectively, and optimize accessibility. Gain the skills to engage students, showcase
                                                their work, and enhance communication within your classroom and the school community. Presenter:
                                                Phil Polsinelli, Assistant Director/Southern Regional ETTC
 
                                                    September 21 - AI in Education: Vast Prospects, Significant Challenges (Passcode: cceh57*B) - The integration of artificial intelligence (AI) in the field of education presents
                                                immense  potential for growth and advancement, but it also brings along noteworthy
                                                obstacles to overcome such as the potential for students to engage in plagiarism.
                                                This issue has pushed AI to the forefront of education. Some higher ed faculty have
                                                taken a strict stance and prohibited using AI in classrooms, while others are encouraging
                                                students to embrace it responsibly and ethically. How can educators effectively harness
                                                the power of AI while safeguarding against issues like cheating? Explore insights
                                                from fellow educators to unravel the solutions. Presenter: Michelle Wendt, Technology
                                                Integration Specialist & Adjunct Faculty
September 23 - FAWN Writing Boot Camp - Boot camps allow participants to write in a distraction-free, structured environment.
                                                You should bring your writing project and writing supplies (laptop, paper, notes,
                                                etc.). We do not provide food, so bring drinks, snacks and lunch. You can join us
                                                virtually using Zoom. We will email the Zoom link to all registered participants.
                                                The FAWN Blackboard course page also has the Zoom link. Registration is not necessary,
                                                though it does help us plan. Please show up and join us for any and all days, for
                                                all of the time or part of the time. Presenter: Dr. Melissa Zwick, Associate Professor
                                                of Biology
September 26 - Dive Into DegreeWorks - Learn how to review degree requirements, search for courses by attribute, and look
                                                ahead, plan ahead, what if. Hosted by: Center for Academic Advising
September 27 - Enhance your Google Docs with Google Drawings - Are you looking to take your Google Docs to the next level by incorporating visually
                                                engaging elements? Join our workshop on enhancing Google Docs with Google Drawings
                                                and unlock a whole new dimension of creativity and collaboration. In this hands-on
                                                workshop, we will guide you through the process of using Google Drawings to enhance
                                                yourdocuments with custom illustrations, diagrams, charts, and more. You will learn how
                                                to seamlessly integrate these visuals into your Google Docs, making your documents
                                                more engaging, informative, and visually appealing. Presenter: Phil Polsinelli, Assistant
                                                Director/Southern Regional ETTC
September 27 - Dive Into DegreeWorks - Learn how to review degree requirements, search for courses by attribute, and look
                                                ahead, plan ahead, what if. Hosted by: Center for Academic Advising
September 28 & 29 - Generative AI Workshops - The workshops will provide hands-on experience, recommended practices, and interactive
                                                discussions about generative AI and its use in and out of the classroom by having
                                                attendees converse with instructional technologists, educational designers, and other
                                                faculty members. The Zoomside Chats will allow faculty and staff to share experiences,
                                                ask questions, and exchange ideas about the challenges and advantages of using generative
                                                AI tools. Hosted by: FRN
October 3 - Having Anti-Bias Discussions in Class - This virtual training will address the importance of discussing topics related to
                                                prejudice and discrimination in the classroom. Participants will explore guidelines
                                                for discussing sensitive topics, how to manage conflict, and pedagogical tools that
                                                facilitate critical thinking. Participants will also learn how the NJ Law Against
                                                Discrimination protects students and educators from biased-based harassment and discrimination. Hosted
                                                by: NJ Division on Civil Rights
October 3 - Preparing for Student Ratings of Teaching - This session offers an overview of date/administration options for the Fall 2023 survey,
                                                the differences between IDEA and the Small Class Instrument (SCI), choosing appropriate
                                                objectives, and improving response rates. Presenter: Alaina Walton, Director of Academic
                                                Assessment
October 4 - Jamboard Interactive Whiteboard for Distance or Traditional Classrooms
                                                   - In today's digital age, educators are constantly seeking innovative ways to engage
                                                students and facilitate meaningful learning experiences. Jamboard, a powerful online
                                                whiteboard tool developed by Google, offers professors an array of interactive features
                                                to enhance their teaching methodology and foster collaboration among students.
This workshop is designed to equip professors with the knowledge and skills necessary
                                                to leverage Jamboard effectively in their classrooms. Participants will explore the
                                                diverse capabilities of Jamboard and discover how it can be integrated seamlessly
                                                into various teaching scenarios. Through hands-on activities and interactive demonstrations,
                                                professors will learn how to create engaging visual content, facilitate real-time
                                                collaboration, and promote student participation. Presenter:  Phil Polsinelli, Assistant
                                                Director/Southern Regional ETTC
October 5
Online MOA - Course Review - Whether you are designing a new online course or teaching
                                                an existing online course for the first time, the CTLD is here to help you navigate
                                                your questions and the steps necessary for a successful course development! Come enjoy
                                                a cup of coffee/tea, meet our Staff and search our library of books and resources.
                                                All are welcome! Coffee Thursdays are held the first Thursday of every month! For
                                                more information and our schedule of topics, visit here.
October 10 - Getting Published: Keys to Success - This session is designed for faculty/staff new to academic publishing.  Learn how
                                                to identify appropriate outlets to publish your work, what to expect in the manuscript
                                                review process, and ways to generate one or more manuscripts from a dissertation. Presenter:
                                                Dr. John Young, CTLD Research Advisor
October 13 - Posting and Grading Assignments in Blackboard - Participants will learn how to create a Blackboard Assignment, access student papers,
                                                provide students feedback using the Annotation tools and grade papers. Presenter:
                                                Dennis Fotía
October 16 - Getting Published: Keys to Success - This session is designed for faculty/staff new to academic publishing.  Learn how
                                                to identify appropriate outlets to publish your work, what to expect in the manuscript
                                                review process, and ways to generate one or more manuscripts from a dissertation. Presenter:
                                                Dr. John Young, CTLD Research Advisor
October 18 - Asynchronous Course Design: An Overview - This session will provide an overview of common issues specific to asynchronous teaching
                                                and learning as well as explore solutions to such issues. Additionally, we will discuss
                                                best practices for designing asynchronous online courses. If time permits, we will
                                                also discuss the Quality Matters rubric and the role it plays in designing a quality
                                                asynchronous online course. Presenter: Abigail Laird, Instructional Designer
October 18 - The Professoriate and the First Amendment:  A Challenged Relationship
                                                   - Join us as Dr. Audrey Latourette, Distinguished Professor of Business Law, describes
                                                case law that shapes and defines the boundaries of free speech in the university context.
                                                As faculty, it is crucial to understand the legal framework that safeguards our right
                                                to express ideas, opinions, and engage in academic pursuits. The First Amendment and
                                                associated case law offers a robust framework for protecting academic freedom and
                                                free speech in higher education. Appreciating the nuances of cases involving faculty
                                                is essential in navigating the complexities of teaching, research, and advocacy while
                                                upholding the principles of academic freedom.
 
                                                   October 23 - Getting Published: Keys to Success - This session is designed for faculty/staff new to academic publishing.  Learn how
                                                to identify appropriate outlets to publish your work, what to expect in the manuscript
                                                review process, and ways to generate one or more manuscripts from a dissertation. Presenter:
                                                Dr. John Young, CTLD Research Advisor
October 24 - Life After Tenure: Mid-Career Professional Development - This session is designed for tenured faculty who are interested in developing further
                                                as a researcher. Learn about developing a research agenda, applying for external research
                                                funding, importance of academic conferences, and professional service opportunities
                                                in your field. Presenter: Dr. John Young, CTLD Research Advisor
October 24 - Blackboard Learn Ultra Basics - This webinar is designed to provide you with easy step-by-step instructions on how
                                                to upload course content, create discussion boards for students to engage in, and
                                                provide an overview of the types of online assessments available in Learn Ultra Course
                                                View. Host by: Anthology
October 25 - Grading and Managing the Gradebook in Learn Ultra - This intermediate session will provide a deeper dive into setting up grading criteria
                                                for assessments, utilizing different types of assessments, and creating gradable assignments
                                                in Learn Ultra. Host by: Anthology
October 26 - Creating Assessments in Learn Ultra - In this session, we will focus on creating different assessments and assignments
                                                in Learn Ultra. We will outline the steps to create an assessment or an assignment,
                                                including selecting different options in grade settings. Host by: Anthology
October 27 - Using SafeAssign and Annotate within the Blackboard Assignment Tool -
                                                   This session will show participants how to add SafeAssign when creating a Blackboard
                                                assignment to identify similarity in student writing submissions to other student
                                                papers in the SafeAssign database as well as from internet sources. We will also review
                                                Annotate, an annotation tool in the Blackboard Assignment tool, and demonstrate how
                                                to provide feedback to students using markup and annotation directly on submitted
                                                papers. Presenter: Dennis Fotía
 
                                                   October 30 - Life After Tenure: Mid-Career Professional Development - This session is designed for tenured faculty who are interested in developing further
                                                as a researcher. Learn about developing a research agenda, applying for external research
                                                funding, importance of academic conferences, and professional service opportunities
                                                in your field. Presenter: Dr. John Young, CTLD Research Advisor
October 31 - Recognizing and Responding to Microaggressions - Recently there has been much discussion about microaggressions, the subtle acts of
                                                exclusion that many people routinely experience. This interactive, virtual training
                                                will explore the ways that implicit bias – including microaggressions – manifest in
                                                our lives and impact our relationships with others. Through case studies and discussion,
                                                participants will deepen their understanding of implicit bias, learn how to identify
                                                microaggressions, and investigate strategies for responding effectively to microaggressions
                                                that they experience and commit. Participants will also learn about the NJ Law Against
                                                Discrimination and how microaggressions can contribute to a hostile work or school
                                                environment. Hosted by: NJ Division on Civil Rights
October 31 - Improving Student Engagement in Learn Ultra - Discover how utilizing tools within Learn Ultra can encourage meaningful engagement
                                                among students between your students and you, and with the content itself! In this
                                                session, we’ll examine how to effectively use discussion boards, class conversations,
                                                interactive lectures, and other Learn Ultra tools to foster student engagement in
                                                your course. We will also explore different ways to promote communication and collaboration
                                                among your students to get them involved and to keep them engaged in online classes. Hosted
                                                by: Anthology
 November 1 - Microsoft Learning Accelerators - Join us for an overview of Microsoft's new learning accelerators, which provide virtual
                                                coaching and real-time feedback to learners. Use these free, dynamic tools in Microsoft
                                                Teams, the Edge browser, or in apps such as Word and PowerPoint to enhance your assignments
                                                and feedback as well as improve students' research, public speaking, literacy and
                                                math skills. Presenter: Abigail Laird, Instructional Designer
November 1 - Blackboard Learn Ultra Best Practices - This session will take on more of a pedagogical nature to assist in readying your
                                                course and yourself to enhance the teaching and learning of your students. The session
                                                will coalesce around the lifecycle of each tool including instructor creation and
                                                consideration, student completion, instructor grading, and finally the student accessing
                                                their grade. Think broadly in terms of groups, assignments, assessments, journals,
                                                and discussion boards—how can I make these more effective for me and for my students? Hosted
                                                by: Anthology

What is all the fuss about Artificial Intelligence (AI)? Both compelling and concerning,
                                                AI is the hot topic of the year! Join the conversation that is sweeping not only Higher
                                                Education, but the nation, as we navigate this unchartered territory with an open
                                                mind and an intension to maintain the integrity of the human mind's work. Coffee, tea and light refreshments will be served!
November 2 - Envisioning Institutional Responses to Supporting Scholar Safety - This panel discussion will explore how institutions can be better stewards and supporters
                                                of the scholars that advance institutional missions and, through their research, contribute
                                                to a more equitable and just society. Sponsors: The National Center for Institutional
                                                Diversity, University of Michigan Office of the Vice President for Research, and National
                                                Association of Diversity Officers in Higher Education.
November 7  - 5 Tips for Accessibility in Digital Content - In this session, we will focus on the common accessibility issues in digital content
                                                and some tips for addressing them. We will outline a little statement about how the
                                                Anthology tool Ally can help ease the process of increasing digital accessibility. Hosted
                                                by: Anthology
November 8 - Blackboard Learn Ultra Basics - This webinar is designed to provide you with easy step-by-step instructions on how
                                                to upload course content, create discussion boards for students to engage in, and
                                                provide an overview of the types of online assessments available in Learn Ultra Course
                                                View. Hosted by: Anthology
November 9 - Grading and Managing the Gradebook in Learn Ultra - This intermediate session will provide a deeper dive into setting up grading criteria
                                                for assessments, utilizing different types of assessments, and creating gradable assignments
                                                in Learn Ultra. Hosted by: Anthology
 
                                                   November 10 - First Year File Construction & Faculty Plan - The session is designed for first year faculty and will focus on file construction
                                                and creating a faculty plan. Facilitated by: Kerri Sowers, Associate Professor of
                                                Health Science and CTLD Mentoring Faculty Fellow, and Elizabeth Pollock, Associate
                                                Professor of Chemistry and FRC Chair.
 
                                                   November 13 - External Research Funding: Advice and Insights from the ORSP Executive Director and
                                                      CTLD Research Advisor - In this session, you’ll hear from Dr. Joseph Cronin about upcoming changes and new
                                                initiatives with ORSP and from Dr. John Young about strategies to identify and apply
                                                for opportunities to fund your research. Presenter: Dr. John Young, CTLD Research
                                                Advisor and Dr. Joseph Cronin, ORSP Executive Director
 
                                                   November 13 - NTTP, XIII-D, XIII-O, PT File Construction - This workshop is designed for NTTP, XIII-D, XIII-O, and part-time faculty and will
                                                focus on the file construction process necessary for annual reviews. Facilitated by:
                                                Kerri Sowers, Associate Professor of Health Science and CTLD Mentoring Faculty Fellow,
                                                and Elizabeth Pollock, Associate Professor of Chemistry and FRC Chair.
November 14 - Creating Assessments in Learn Ultra - In this session, we will focus on creating different assessments and assignments in
                                                Learn Ultra. We will outline the steps to create an assessment or an assignment, including
                                                selecting different options in grade settings. Hosted by: Anthology
 
                                                   November 15 - Second Year File Construction & Faculty Plan - The session is designed for second year faculty and will focus on file construction
                                                and making any necessary modifications to your faculty plan. Facilitated by: Kerri
                                                Sowers, Associate Professor of Health Science and CTLD Mentoring Faculty Fellow, and
                                                Elizabeth Pollock, Associate Professor of Chemistry and FRC Chair.
November 15 - Improving Student Engagement in Learn Ultra - Discover how utilizing tools within Learn Ultra can encourage meaningful engagement
                                                among students between your students and you, and with the content itself! In this
                                                session, we’ll examine how to effectively use discussion boards, class conversations,
                                                interactive lectures, and other Learn Ultra tools to foster student engagement in
                                                your course. We will also explore different ways to promote communication and collaboration
                                                among your students to get them involved and to keep them engaged in online classes. Hosted
                                                by: Anthology
 
                                                   November 15 - Third Year File Construction - The session is designed for third year faculty and will focus on file construction. Facilitated
                                                by: Kerri Sowers, Associate Professor of Health Science and CTLD Mentoring Faculty
                                                Fellow, and Elizabeth Pollock, Associate Professor of Chemistry and FRC Chair.
November 16 - External Research Funding: Advice and Insights from the ORSP Executive
                                                   Director and CTLD Research Advisor - In this session, you’ll hear from Dr. Joseph Cronin about upcoming changes and new
                                                initiatives with ORSP and from Dr. John Young about strategies to identify and apply
                                                for opportunities to fund your research. Presenter: Dr. John Young, CTLD Research
                                                Advisor and Dr. Joseph Cronin, ORSP Executive Director
November 16 - Blackboard Learn Ultra Best Practices - This session will take on more of a pedagogical nature to assist in readying your
                                                course and yourself to enhance the teaching and learning of your students. The session
                                                will coalesce around the lifecycle of each tool including instructor creation and
                                                consideration, student completion, instructor grading, and finally the student accessing
                                                their grade. Think broadly in terms of groups, assignments, assessments, journals,
                                                and discussion boards—how can I make these more effective for me and for my students?. Hosted
                                                by: Anthology
November 16 - Teaching with Blackboard Series: Blackboard Grade Center - Calculating Final Grades - In this workshop, we will discuss how to calculate overall
                                                grades, including how to use the weighted total feature, share best practices, and
                                                answer questions about specific grading systems. Presenter: Dennis Fotía
 
                                                   November 27 - Range Adjustment Information Session - The session is designed for faculty who are interested in learning more about the
                                                procedures and file construction process for range adjustment. Facilitated by: Kerri
                                                Sowers, Associate Professor of Health Science and CTLD Mentoring Faculty Fellow, and
                                                Elizabeth Pollock, Associate Professor of Chemistry and FRC Chair.
November 28 - Tips for Ending a Course Successfully - Significant time and energy are invested in planning and teaching a course, especially
                                                at the beginning of the semester.  After all of the weeks invested in teaching, building
                                                a learning community, and demonstrating care for our students, how do we conclude
                                                the course to provide positive closure? This interactive session will engage faculty
                                                in a conversation about strategies that provide an opportunity to end a course successfully.
                                                 Join us to make sure your final course session creates a lasting and positive impression
                                                for your students. Presenter: Dr. Kathy Klein, Executive Director, Center for Teaching
                                                & Learning Design
 
                                                   November 28 - Fourth Year File Construction - The session is designed for fourth year faculty and will focus on file construction. Facilitated
                                                by: Kerri Sowers, Associate Professor of Health Science and CTLD Mentoring Faculty
                                                Fellow, and Elizabeth Pollock, Associate Professor of Chemistry and FRC Chair.
November 28 - 5 Tips for Accessibility in Digital Content - In this session, we will focus on the common accessibility issues in digital content
                                                and some tips for addressing them. We will outline a little statement about how the
                                                Anthology tool Ally can help ease the process of increasing digital accessibility. Hosted
                                                by: Anthology
 
                                                   November 28 - Fifth Year (Tenure) File Construction - The session is designed for fifth year faculty and will focus on file construction. Facilitated
                                                by: Kerri Sowers, Associate Professor of Health Science and CTLD Mentoring Faculty
                                                Fellow, and Elizabeth Pollock, Associate Professor of Chemistry and FRC Chair.
December 6 - Having Anti-Bias Discussions in Class - This virtual training will address the importance of discussing topics related to
                                                prejudice and discrimination in the classroom. Participants will explore guidelines
                                                for discussing sensitive topics, how to manage conflict, and pedagogical tools that
                                                facilitate critical thinking. Participants will also learn how the NJ Law Against
                                                Discrimination protects students and educators from biased-based harassment and discrimination. Hosted
                                                by: NJ Division on Civil Rights
December 13 - Why Aren't My Students' Grades Calculating Correctly in Blackboard?
                                                   - It's the end of the semester, you're finishing grading students' work and calculations
                                                don't look correct to you in your weighted column-what should you do? Join this webinar
                                                to review how to double-check your grade center settings to make sure that grades
                                                are calculating correctly. This webinar will review how to set individual and weighted
                                                column settings up to accurately weigh your students' grade averages and will answer
                                                questions regarding calculating grades in Blackboard. Presenter: Dennis Fotia, Instructional
                                                Specialist
May 24 - Navigating Academic Freedom and Protecting Freedom of Speech in a Polarized
                                                   World - Join us and be a part of this important conversation about free speech and academic
                                                freedom in our classrooms and on our campus. Learn from PEN America experts, engage
                                                in facilitated, interactive discussions with fellow faculty members, and explore resources
                                                and practical strategies for promoting and defending free speech and academic freedom
                                                in higher education. Don't miss out on this unique opportunity to gain valuable insights
                                                and strategies for protecting free speech and academic freedom at Stockton. Click
                                                here for more information.
May 26 - Organizing Course Content in Blackboard for Fully Online Courses - In this session participants will review effective strategies to organize and provide
                                                course content and resources for students to access remotely in fully online courses. Presenter:
                                                Dennis Fotía
June 14 - Recognizing and Responding to Microaggressions - Recently there has been much discussion about microaggressions, the subtle acts of
                                                exclusion that many people routinely experience. This interactive, virtual training
                                                will explore the ways that implicit bias – including microaggressions – manifest in
                                                our lives and impact our relationships with others. Through case studies and discussion,
                                                participants will deepen their understanding of implicit bias, learn how to identify
                                                microaggressions, and investigate strategies for responding effectively to microaggressions
                                                that they experience and commit. Participants will also learn about the NJ Law Against
                                                Discrimination and how microaggressions can contribute to a hostile work or school
                                                environment.
June 2 - Turnitin - AI Writing Detection - Turnitin has developed a new AI/ChatGPT-assisted writing detection system specifically
                                                for academic writing. Join Dennis Fotia as he previews the system and reviews additional
                                                resources Turnitin has created for faculty regarding handling AI writing in courses. Presenter:
                                                Dennis Fotía
May 23 to June 11 - Designing a Quality Online Course Summer Institute - The institute will cover key principles of online course design, including instructional
                                                design, learning outcomes and course structure. Faciltitators: Roberto Castillo, Senior
                                                Instructional Specialist and Abigail Laird, Instructional Designer. Mentors: Prof.
                                                Nicole Milan-Tyner, Assistant Professor of Health Science and Prof. Erin Sappio, Assistant
                                                Professor of Counseling. Guest Presenters: Dr. Kathy Klein, Executive Director, Center
                                                for Teaching & Learning Design and Dr. Alaina Walton, Director of Academic Assessment.
June 13 - 15 - Stockton Institute for Peer Evaluation of Teaching (SIPET) - This institute promotes the development of peer observation and evaluations skills
                                                for all course delivery methods (face-to-face, hybrid, and online) as well as course
                                                types (studios, labs, seminars, lectures, etc.). The expectations for those participating
                                                in the 2023 SIPET are governed by the Summer Institute for Peer Evaluation of Teaching
                                                (2013), which specifies that those completing the workshop carry out at least four
                                                peer evaluations (no time limit) as well as agree to be available, during the two
                                                years following participation, for no more than three brief consultations with faculty
                                                carrying out peer evaluations but have not attended SIPET training. Facilitators:
                                                CTLD Executive Director, Dr. Kathy Klein and SIPET Faculty Facilitators, Dr. Liz Shobe
                                                and Dr. Meg White
June 13 - 15 - The Chronicle's Strategic-Leadership Program Seminars For Chairs &
                                                   Coordinators
The Center for Teaching & Learning Design (CTLD) is pleased to provide you with an
                                                opportunity to attend six 75-minute virtual seminars on June 13, 14 & 15th offered
                                                as part of the Chronicle's Strategic-Leadership Program.  In addition to the seminars,
                                                you'll have access to post-event recordings, The Chronicle’s Trends Report, and A
                                                Toolbox for Administrators (a Chronicle article collection).
The seminars are designed for Chairs, Coordinators, and other faculty leaders.  Kindly
                                                review the topics and schedule below.
Tuesday, June 13
National Trends in Higher Education - 11 a.m. ETUnderstanding the Higher Ed Business Model - 2 p.m. ETWednesday, June 14
The Chairs' Role in Enrollment, Retention, and Student Success - 11 a.m. ETCreating a Culture of Belonging in your Department - 2 p.m. ETThursday, June 15
Managing Conflict - 11 a.m. ETAsk Me Anything: A Conversation with a Chair and Dean - 2 p.m. ET
June 19 - Writing Effective Student Learning Outcomes Using Bloom’s Taxonomy - This session will focus on the concept of alignment, demonstrating how assignments,
                                                course-level student learning outcomes, and program-level student learning outcomes
                                                work together to ensure the success of our students. Specifically, we will discuss
                                                how strong course-level student learning outcomes allow faculty to accurately and
                                                consistently measure student progress toward the desired learning goals. Using Bloom's
                                                Taxonomy, we will develop measurable course-level student learning outcomes that clearly
                                                describe what students should be able to do once they have completed the course. Presenter:
                                                Dr. Alaina Walton, Director of Academic Assessment
June 20 - Inclusive Teaching (STILT) - The purpose of the Inclusive Teaching Summer Institute is to introduce faculty to
                                                an online toolkit of resources (Stockton Toolkit for Inclusive Learning & Teaching)
                                                designed to promote inclusive teaching practices at Stockton. Facilitators: Dr. Kathleen
                                                Klein and Prof. Guia Calicdan-Apostle
June 29 - Asynchronous Course Design: An Overview - This session will provide an overview of common issues specific to asynchronous teaching
                                                and learning as well as explore solutions to such issues. Additionally, we will discuss
                                                best practices for designing asynchronous online courses. If time permits, we will
                                                also discuss the Quality Matters rubric and the role it plays in designing a quality
                                                asynchronous online course. Presenter: Abigail Laird, Instructional Designer
June 30 - Organizing Course Content for Asynchronous/Online Delivery in Blackboard
                                                   - In this session participants will review effective strategies to organize and provide
                                                course content and resources in Blackboard for students to access in asynchronous/online
                                                courses. Presenter: Dennis Fotía
July 13 - Sneak Preview of Blackboard Learn with the Ultra View - Blackboard's Ultra View offers a modern and simple interface. This sneak preview session
                                                will help instructors choose between retaining an Original Learn course view or using
                                                the new Ultra view. Additionally, the instructor will review the basic elements of
                                                Blackboard's Ultra View. Presenter: Roberto Castillo, Senior Instructional Specialist
July 21 - Asynchronous Course Design: An Overview - This session will provide an overview of common issues specific to asynchronous teaching
                                                and learning as well as explore solutions to such issues. Additionally, we will discuss
                                                best practices for designing asynchronous online courses. If time permits, we will
                                                also discuss the Quality Matters rubric and the role it plays in designing a quality
                                                asynchronous online course. Presenter: Abigail Laird, Instructional Designer
July 26 - Providing Accessible Course Materials with Blackboard Ally - Learn about the Blackboard Ally tool available in all Stockton Blackboard courses.
                                                 Ally helps determine the accessibility of course materials with guidance to improve
                                                accessibility.  Ally generates alternative document formats beneficial for all students
                                                but critical for individuals with disabilities. Presenter: Roberto Castillo, Senior
                                                Instructional Specialist
July 31 - Microsoft Learning Accelerators - Join us for an overview of Microsoft's new learning accelerators, which provide virtual
                                                coaching and real-time feedback to learners. Use these free, dynamic tools in Microsoft
                                                Teams, the Edge browser, or in apps such as Word and PowerPoint to enhance your assignments
                                                and feedback as well as improve students' research, public speaking, literacy and
                                                math skills. Presenter: Abigail Laird, Instructional Designer
August 7 - Writing Effective Student Learning Outcomes Using Bloom’s Taxonomy - This session will focus on the concept of alignment, demonstrating how assignments,
                                                course-level student learning outcomes, and program-level student learning outcomes
                                                work together to ensure the success of our students. Specifically, we will discuss
                                                how strong course-level student learning outcomes allow faculty to accurately and
                                                consistently measure student progress toward the desired learning goals. Using Bloom's
                                                Taxonomy, we will develop measurable course-level student learning outcomes that clearly
                                                describe what students should be able to do once they have completed the course. Presenter:
                                                Dr. Alaina Walton, Director of Academic Assessment
August 8 - 
August 16 - Asynchronous Course Design: An Overview - This session will provide an overview of common issues specific to asynchronous teaching
                                                and learning as well as explore solutions to such issues. Additionally, we will discuss
                                                best practices for designing asynchronous online courses. If time permits, we will
                                                also discuss the Quality Matters rubric and the role it plays in designing a quality
                                                asynchronous online course. Presenter: Abigail Laird, Instructional Designer

August 24 - Course Design & Teaching Series: Best Practices in Syllabus Design - In this session, we'll go over best practices when creating or revising your course
                                                syllabus. Read the article on "How to Create a Syllabus" and come prepare to discuss
                                                how to draft a student-centered syllabus that can help students succeed in your course. Presenter:
                                                Roberto Castillo, Senior Instructional Specialist

August 28 - Teaching with Blackboard Series: Getting Started with Blackboard - This session will introduce participants to Stockton’s learning management system,
                                                Blackboard. We will review the basics for adding and creating course content in Blackboard
                                                Original View. Presenter: Roberto Castillo, Senior Instructional Specialist
August 31 - The Attendance Tool in Blackboard - You will learn how to use the Blackboard Attendance tool to track student's attendance
                                                and how this data integrates in the Grade Center as part of the student's overall
                                                grades. Presenter: Roberto Castillo, Senior Instructional Specialist
January 19 - Let’s Talk About Your Spring Research Agenda - Pop in to talk about research plans and how to make them happen. Presenter: Christine
                                                Tartaro, Ph.D., Chair, Master of Arts in Criminal Justice, Distinguished Professor
                                                of Criminal Justice, Director, Stockton CSI Summer Camp
January 25 - Recognizing and Responding to Microaggressions - Recently there has been much discussion about microaggressions, the subtle acts of
                                                exclusion that many people routinely experience. This interactive, virtual training
                                                will explore the ways that implicit bias – including microaggressions – manifest in
                                                our lives and impact our relationships with others. Through case studies and discussion,
                                                participants will deepen their understanding of implicit bias, learn how to identify
                                                microaggressions, and investigate strategies for responding effectively to microaggressions
                                                that they experience and commit. Participants will also learn about the NJ Law Against
                                                Discrimination and how microaggressions can contribute to a hostile work or school
                                                environment. Host by: New Jersey Division of Civil Rights
January 26 - Having Anti-Bias Discussions in Class - This virtual training will address the importance of creating “brave spaces” to discuss
                                                topics related to prejudice and discrimination in the classroom. Participants will
                                                explore guidelines for discussing sensitive topics, how to manage conflict, and pedagogical
                                                tools that facilitate critical thinking. Participants will also learn how the NJ Law
                                                Against Discrimination protects students and educators from biased-based harassment
                                                and discrimination. Host by: New Jersey Division of Civil Rights
January 26 - HUSCHBLACKWELL - Accommodating Students with Disabilities
Overview of the key disability laws and legal principlesReview of accommodation processFaculty role in the accommodation processConfidentialityOverview of digital accessibility developmentsHost: School of Business
Presenter: Elizabeth Samples
January 31 - What Do These IDEA Scores Really Mean? - IDEA provides so much more guidance beyond the "Excellent Teacher, Excellent Course"
                                                average score. This workshop will delve into what your IDEA scores say about the objectives
                                                you've chosen, the teaching methods you use, and how students connect learning objectives
                                                with teaching style, assessments, and so much more. We will discuss practical ways
                                                to improve your scores using the individualized suggestions embedded within IDEA.
                                                In addition, faculty will walk away with suggestions on how to write about IDEA for
                                                tenure/promotion files and scholarship. Presenter: Dr. Alaina Walton, Director of
                                                Academic Assessment
January 31 - Sneak Preview of Blackboard Learn with the Ultra View -  Blackboard's Ultra View offers a modern and simple interface. This sneak preview
                                                session will help instructors choose between retaining an Original Learn course view
                                                or using the new Ultra view. Additionally, the instructor will review the basic elements
                                                of Blackboard's Ultra View. Presenter: Roberto Castillo
February 1 - HUSCHBLACKWELL - A Closer Look at Sexual Harassment and VAWA -
Deeper dive on recent case activity in academiaWhat happens at initial complaint evaluationSupportive measures, accommodations, and trauma-informed strategiesFormal v. informal resolution processesEliminating bias, stereotyping and conflicts of interestsSpecial considerations for cases involving sexual assault,  stalking, and interpersonal
                                                violenceHost: School of General Studies
Presenter: Elizabeth Samples
February 6 - Google Classroom Essentials for Beginners - Digitally organize, distribute, and collect assignments, course materials (think:
                                                videos, websites, PDFs, and more), and student work. Communicate with students about
                                                their classwork by posting announcements and reminders about assignments, and easily
                                                see who has or hasn't completed their work. You can also check in with individual
                                                students privately, answer their questions, and offer support.  Within Google Classroom,
                                                it's possible to use Google Forms to create and share quizzes that are automatically
                                                graded as students turn them in to get instant feedback on their work. Presenter:
                                                Michelle Wendt, Technology Integration Specialist & Adjunct Faculty
February 8 - Google Classroom as a Collaborative Tool - While Google Classroom is a valuable tool for administering classes. It can also be
                                                used as an asynchronous collaborative tool for any situation. Learn to use this tool
                                                as a sharing environment for you, your colleagues or anybody you are working with
                                                on a project.  This can become your one stop virtual location for all documents, deadlines
                                                and general organization among small or large groups of participants. It is a great
                                                way to keep everything in one place. Presenter: Phil Polsinelli, Assistant Director/Southern
                                                Regional ETTC
 
                                                    February 10 - Faculty Resource Network (FRN): Impact on Faculty Career Development (Passcode: 2@?Z3Nb*) - Did you know that Stockton University's membership agreement with the Faculty Resource
                                                Network (FRN) at New York University provides Stockton faculty with access to professional
                                                development programs including lectures, symposia, intensive seminars, and visiting
                                                scholar opportunities designed to improve the quality of teaching and learning at
                                                Stockton?  To learn more about how you might benefit from FRN opportunities, join
                                                us for an informal discussion describing the opportunities available to Stockton faculty
                                                through FRN.  Explore how an FRN experience may impact your career development by
                                                hearing from Stockton faculty who have attended FRN events.  Faculty will describe
                                                the impact of FRN experiences on teaching, course design, research, collaboration,
                                                and networking opportunities. Bring your lunch, speak with colleagues, and learn about
                                                FRN's engaging and effective professional development opportunities. Faciltitator:
                                                Dr. Michael Rodriguez, Professor of Political Science
February 13 - Student Collaboration using Google Drive, Docs, and Slides - Think whole-class brainstorming sessions with shared Google Docs or shared notes where
                                                students can add ideas and resources when they work together in groups. Host collaborative
                                                projects where each student can be responsible for a portion of the work. Peer review
                                                is possible with shared docs; peers can edit the document or suggest changes. Group
                                                slideshows allow students to learn from each other as they add pictures, audio, and
                                                even video to create presentations that pull in information from a wide variety of
                                                sources and perspectives. Presenter: Michelle Wendt, Technology Integration Specialist
                                                & Adjunct Faculty
February 16 - Collaborative Google Tools for Faculty and Staff - This webinar focuses on collaboration with your colleagues and provides valuable techniques
                                                for any project involving more than one participant. Topics that will be explored
                                                include: The how and why of creating a shared Google drive for your team, sharing
                                                documents for collaboration, using comments in Google Docs or Sheets as task lists,
                                                the valuable “suggestion mode” for collaborating on a Doc, plus a few extras. If you
                                                are still sending Word documents back and forth for corrections via email, you need
                                                this workshop. Presenter: Phil Polsinelli, Assistant Director/Southern Regional ETTC
February 16 - Google Classroom - Intermediate/Advanced Techniques - For this webinar, we will explore the lesser utilized features of Google Classroom.
                                                Learn how to create, share and reuse rubrics for your assignments. Set up your grading
                                                scale with pre-set weights for assignments, tests and projects. And, learn how to
                                                utilize some Chrome extensions to simplify ways to share content with your students. Presenter:
                                                Michelle Wendt, Technology Integration Specialist & Adjunct Faculty
February 24 - Zeroing Out Student Textbook Costs Open Educational Resource (OER) Workshop:
                                                   Free with the Z - Stockton's Open Textbook & Education Resource Committee (OTERC) invites all faculty
                                                to attend an Open Educational Resource (OER) Workshop this Friday from 11:20 am -
                                                12:20 pm in ROOM TBA. Food will be provided.  The workshop is for faculty and students
                                                to learn about Stockton's new Z-course attribute and consider the benefits of OERs.
                                                OERs include a variety of materials released under an open license, allowing faculty
                                                and students to re-use, re-purpose, adapt, and redistribute materials at no cost. Presenters:
                                                Dr. Christy Goodnight, Eric Jeitner, & Dr. Kathy Klein
February 20-24 - Week of Teaching
February 28 - Posting and Grading Assignments in Blackboard - Participants will learn how to create a Blackboard Assignment, access student papers,
                                                provide students feedback using the Annotation tools and grade papers. Presenter:
                                                Roberto Castillo, Senior Instructional Specialist
March 1 - Getting the Inside Scoop: Using Midterm Evaluations to Improve IDEA Scores
                                                   - Midterm evaluations allow instructors to gauge student learning early in the semester,
                                                offering plenty of time to modify lectures and assignments as needed. This practice
                                                can lead to improved student learning, better overall performance, and higher IDEA
                                                scores. Join us as we discuss the importance of midterm evaluations as well as the
                                                paper & pencil, Blackboard, and Google tools that will get you the information you
                                                need. Presenter: Dr. Alaina Walton, Director of Academic Assessment
March 2 - Research Roundtable - Attend this research roundtable to discuss ways to reinvigorate your research agenda
                                                and consider publication and other research dissemination opportunities. Presenter:
                                                Christine Tartaro, Ph.D., Chair, Master of Arts in Criminal Justice, Distinguished
                                                Professor of Criminal Justice, Director, Stockton CSI Summer Camp
March 7 - Looking for that first publication? Let’s go over the basics of publishing
                                                   -  Are you new to publishing and don’t know where to start? Let’s talk. We will go over
                                                thinking about the pros and cons of different venues for your work and the steps that
                                                you need to take to make it happen. Presenter: Christine Tartaro, Ph.D., Chair, Master
                                                of Arts in Criminal Justice, Distinguished Professor of Criminal Justice, Director,
                                                Stockton CSI Summer Camp
March 8 - Preparing for Student Ratings of Teaching - This session is designed for those who are new to the IDEA process or for those who
                                                simply want to know more. We will discuss date/administration options for the Spring
                                                2023 survey, the differences between IDEA and the Small Class Instrument (SCI), choosing
                                                appropriate objectives, and improving response rates. Presenter: Dr. Alaina Walton,
                                                Director of Academic Assessment
March 8 - ChatGPT and Other Cutting-Edge Learning Tech 
Description:
Much has been said about the potential — and potential pitfalls — of AI tools like
                                                ChatGPT. What do faculty and administrators need to know as they look toward a more
                                                AI-enabled academic future?
The Chronicle brings together a panel of experts to discuss this hot-button issue
                                                in the virtual forum, “ChatGPT and Other Cutting-Edge Learning Tech."
Join us to hear their thoughts on topics like:
What educators need to know about research, writing, tutoring, and grading tools like
                                                ChatGPT and other generative AI toolsHow colleges can best prepare their faculty members to teach with and about AITeaching students how to use AI tools wiselyHosted by: Beth McMurtrie, Senior Writer, The Chronicle of Higher Education
Panelists: 
Betsy Barre, Executive Director, Center for the Advancement of Teaching, Wake Forest
                                                UniversityAnna Mills, Writing Instructor, Open Textbook Author, College of MarinSteven Weber, Vice Provost for Undergraduate Curriculum and Education, Drexel University
March 8 - Jamboard for Collaboration - Jamboard is a free and easily accessible digital whiteboard. It can be shared with
                                                colleagues or students or simply be used as a convenient visual tool while presenting
                                                for a classroom or meeting. All notations can be saved and shared later if necessary.
                                                This is an invaluable brainstorming tool for any group project whether it be for students
                                                or colleagues. Plus, it’s super easy to use. Presenter: Phil Polsinelli, Assistant
                                                Director/Southern Regional ETTC
March 9 - Making Better Classroom Resources using Google Docs - Many of us are already using Google Docs as a word processing program however, we
                                                fall short of utilizing some of the more robust features that make it more like a
                                                desktop publishing application. In this session we will explore ways to create informative
                                                handouts that can include labeled images and diagrams. We will look at more advanced
                                                layout possibilities that will allow you to create impactful documents and even newsletters.
                                                Plus you’ll have all of the collaborative features that Google always provides. Presenter:
                                                Phil Polsinelli, Assistant Director/Southern Regional ETTC

March 14 - Managing Students' Grades with the Blackboard Grade Center - The Blackboard Grade Center is a great tool for tracking grades and providing feedback
                                                to students about their performance and learning. You'll learn how to use the Grade
                                                Center to record and calculate grades, provide comments, and customize the Grade Center
                                                for easier use. Presenter: Roberto Castillo, Senior Instructional Specialist
March 20 - Preparing for Student Ratings of Teaching - This session is designed for those who are new to the IDEA process or for those who
                                                simply want to know more. We will discuss date/administration options for the Spring
                                                2023 survey, the differences between IDEA and the Small Class Instrument (SCI), choosing
                                                appropriate objectives, and improving response rates. Presenter: Dr. Alaina Walton,
                                                Director of Academic Assessment
March 21& 22 - Getting Ready for Precepting - Precepting is right around the corner! March 29th and April 4 are the Stockton’s
                                                scheduled preceptorial advising days.  In preparation, The Center for Academic Advising
                                                has scheduled two workshops to answer any type of advising questions. Please join
                                                us either March 21 at 12:30 p.m. or March 22 at 12:45 in-person or ZOOM.  We will
                                                cover such precepting tips as scheduling appointments, using Blackboard for advising,
                                                and help with Degree Works and registration. Hosted by: Paula Dollarhide, Assistant
                                                Director of Academic Advising


March 23 - Planning Your Work as a Tool for Self-Care - Burnout is a very real response to environmental stress and is often made all the
                                                more intense when we feel we are out of control and overwhelmed by what causes us
                                                stress. And a significant source of stress and burnout can be rooted in how we organize
                                                and build our work schedules. By building a schedule that is purposeful and proactive
                                                in nature, we can construct a short-term or long-term schedule that is supportive
                                                of our self-care needs. Come and learn how to build a work schedule that is focused
                                                on burnout prevention that also takes a realistic approach to what is possible, what
                                                is impossible, and what will truly serve you well. Presenter: Anthony Dissen, Instructor
                                                of Health Science
March 23 - Finding your groove (or getting your groove back) after tenure - This workshop focuses on a vision of “what’s next” and intentional career planning.
                                                Participants will explore their next stages of productivity, different methods for
                                                generating satisfying work, and perhaps redefining what satisfaction and productivity
                                                looks and feels like. This workshop is intended for tenured faculty (tenure started
                                                September 2022 or earlier) at any stage. Facilitator: Elizabeth Shobe, Ph.D., Professor
                                                of Psychology Behavioral Neuroscience (NEUR), Coordinator Departmental Consulting
                                                Services (DCS), APA Division 2, Director
March 24 - Clearing the Decks - Clean out the mental and physical clutter that is preventing you from making and attaining
                                                your writing goals. Based on one of the steps in Leo Babauta’s Zen to Done https://zenhabits.net/zen-to-done-ztd-the-ultimate-simple-productivity-system/,
                                                this workshop will help you define what is important, help you manage your inboxes,
                                                and get your workload to a manageable place and pace so you have space for your research
                                                and writing. This is an active workshop—the goal is for you to have a clear desk and
                                                inbox by the end of the workshop. 
March 30 - Promotion File Information Session - The session is designed for faculty who are interested in learning more about the
                                                procedures and file construction process for promotion. Facilitated by: Kerri Sowers,
                                                Associate Professor of Health Science and CTLD Professional Development and Evaluation
                                                Fellow, and Dr. Heather McGovern, Professor of Writing & First - Year Studies
March 31 - Stop the Bull(ying) in Higher Education Symposium for Faculty - Workplace bullying in higher education destroys careers, creates health problems,
                                                diminishes diversity/inclusion efforts, and erodes trust. This two-day symposium is
                                                designed to inform participants and generate ideas and solutions to end the problem.
The topics: 1.Faculty career safety 2. Faculty health issues 3. Cost and Legal Ramifications
                                                4. Institutional Diversity 5. Impact on research
Why Attend this free event?
With 62% of respondents reporting bullying, someone you know is affected.
Interact with some of the top workplace bullying researchers in the US.Learn about the phenomena and how you can resist bullying.Experts: Loreleigh Keashly, Wayne State; Jerry Carbo, Shippensburg State; Stacy Tye-Williams,
                                                Iowa State; Leah Hollis, Morgan State/ Boston University; Moreteza Mahmodi, Michigan
                                                State; Jennifer Swann, Lehigh University; Susan Johnson, University of Washington.
Host: Holona Ochs, Lehigh University
March 31 - When to say no (or yes!) after tenure - This workshop focus is managing multiple demands of mid-career faculty. This is NOT
                                                a time management plan. Full professors will share how they prioritize research, teaching,
                                                and service work, the strategies they use to say “no”, and their reasons for saying
                                                “yes”. Workshop participants will examine different scenarios and create a model of
                                                task priorities task that fit their bigger picture. Facilitator: Elizabeth Shobe,
                                                Ph.D., Professor of Psychology Behavioral Neuroscience (NEUR), Coordinator Departmental
                                                Consulting Services (DCS), APA Division 2, Director
April 11 - Tips for Ending a Course Successfully - Significant time and energy are invested in planning and teaching a course, especially
                                                at the beginning of the semester.  After all of the weeks invested in teaching, building
                                                a learning community, and demonstrating care for our students, how do we conclude
                                                the course to provide positive closure? This interactive session will engage faculty
                                                in a conversation about strategies that provide an opportunity to end a course successfully.
                                                 Join us to make sure your final course session creates a lasting and positive impression
                                                for your students. Presenter: Dr. Kathy Klein, Executive Director, Center for Teaching
                                                & Learning Design
April 13 - Peer Evaluations of Teaching that matter (and don’t) - Deans, FRC, and PRC members will share their insights and perspectives on strengths
                                                and weaknesses of peer evaluation of teaching reports used in personnel files. Participants
                                                will discuss issues they have faced in completing peer observation reports. This workshop
                                                will also provide some tips and best practices from Stockton’s Institute for Peer
                                                Evaluation Training. Facilitator: Elizabeth Shobe, Ph.D., Professor of Psychology
                                                Behavioral Neuroscience (NEUR), Coordinator Departmental Consulting Services (DCS),
                                                APA Division 2, Director
April 18 - Roads (and roadblocks) to full professor - This workshop will share strategies for documenting “quality” of service and scholarly
                                                contributions, overcoming barriers, and supporting a case for promotion. This session
                                                will also include thinking rationally about readiness. Participants will spend time
                                                focusing on current contributions, finding and filling gaps. Facilitator: Elizabeth
                                                Shobe, Ph.D., Professor of Psychology Behavioral Neuroscience (NEUR), Coordinator
                                                Departmental Consulting Services (DCS), APA Division 2, Director
April 20 - Blackboard Grade Center - Calculating Final Grades - In this workshop, we will discuss how to calculate overall grades, including how
                                                to use the weighted total feature, share best practices, and answer questions about
                                                specific grading systems. Presenter: Roberto Castillo, Senior Instructional Specialist
April 21 - Finding Relevant Scholarly Journals to Publish In - Have an idea but now sure where you would publish it? Already have an article written
                                                but haven’t found it a home? Want to get that dissertation research published in a
                                                journal or two? Take away some tips on how to find applicable, trustworthy journals
                                                in your field. FAWN can help you steer away from those predatory journals and into
                                                clear waters of quality peer-reviewed journals. Be prepared to walk away with some
                                                new options for publishing your scholarly work.
April 21 - Nurturing a community of support - Discussion will focus on needs of mid- career faculty, identifying networks of people
                                                that support and guide participants toward their individual big picture goals, motivating
                                                techniques to stay on track, and resources currently in existence or that should be.
                                                Participants will identify areas (e.g., teaching, scholarship, service, work-life
                                                balance, retirement planning) where they need the most support and what that support
                                                should look like. Facilitator: Elizabeth Shobe, Ph.D., Professor of Psychology Behavioral
                                                Neuroscience (NEUR), Coordinator Departmental Consulting Services (DCS), APA Division
                                                2, Director


May 3 - Best Practices in Syllabus Design - In this session, we'll go over best practices when creating or revising your course
                                                syllabus. Read the article on "How to Create a Syllabus" and come prepare to discuss
                                                how to draft a student-centered syllabus that can help students succeed in your course. Presenter:
                                                Roberto Castillo, Senior Instructional Specialist
May 6 - Grading Café - Grade together in a supportive and focused environment so that you can write in the
                                                supportive and focused environment of our Spring 2023 Writing Retreat without guilt.
                                                Coffee and snacks will be provided.
May 8, 9, 10 - FAWN WRITING RETREAT AND GUEST SPEAKER, Joli Jensen
May 11 -  Providing Accessible Course Materials with Blackboard Ally - Learn about the Blackboard Ally tool available in all Stockton Blackboard courses.
                                                 Ally helps determine the accessibility of course materials with guidance to improve
                                                accessibility.  Ally generates alternative document formats beneficial for all students
                                                but critical for individuals with disabilities. Presenter: Dr. Kathy Klein, Executive
                                                Director, Center for Teaching & Learning Design
 
                                                   January 9 - PRC Prep Information Session (Open to PRC members only) - This workshop is designed for new and experienced PRC members and will focus on PRC
                                                   procedures during the file review cycles. Facilitated by: Kerri Sowers, Associate Professor of Health Science and CTLD Professional
                                                Development and Evaluation Fellow, and Dr. Heather McGovern, Professor of Writing
                                                & First - Year Studies
January 10 -  Let's Raise The Bar This Semester! - Please join like-minded critical thinkers and pedagogical perfectionists as we plan
                                                for the upcoming semester. Hot topics include: How do I set reasonable goals in a
                                                post-pandemic learning environment? How will I measure success? How will I hold my
                                                students accountable? And my current favorite - have I created so much scaffolding
                                                that my students simply don't need to pay attention? We'll discuss all of this in
                                                the context of critical thinking (of course), but as the subject line suggests, I'm
                                                open to anything. These conversations have been consistently lively, interesting and
                                                inspiring, and are always better with more voices. RSVP to jedediah.morfit@stockton.edu,
                                                and good luck in the coming semester! Presenter: Jedediah Morfit, Professor of Art
January 11 - Best Practices in Syllabus Design - In this session, we'll go over best practices when creating or revising your course
                                                syllabus. Read the article on "How to Create a Syllabus" and come prepare to discuss
                                                how to draft a student-centered syllabus that can help students succeed in your course. Presenter:
                                                Roberto Castillo, Senior Instructional Specialist
January 12 - Getting Started with Blackboard - This session will introduce participants to Stockton’s learning management system,
                                                Blackboard. We will review Blackboard layout and structure for adding and creating
                                                course content. Presenter: Roberto Castillo, Senior Instructional Specialist
Professional Development Sessions
August 23 through September 20 - Assessment 101: A Guide to Assessment at Stockton
                                                   University
Sept 6 -  Choosing the right assignment
Sept 13 - Reporting for annual and periodic reviews
Sept 20 - Implementing continuous improvement
This 5-part series for program chairs and assessment sub-committees builds on the
                                                assessment modules that can be found on the Office of Academic Assessment website.
                                                Please watch the modules ahead of time, complete any of the optional activities that
                                                sound interesting to you, and come to the live sessions ready to discuss the weekly
                                                topic.  Presenter: Dr. Alaina Walton, Director of Academic Assessment
September 13 - Collaborative Google Tools for Faculty and Staff - This webinar focuses on collaboration with your colleagues and provides valuable techniques
                                                for any project involving more than one participant. Topics that will be explored
                                                include: The how and why of creating a shared Google drive for your team, sharing
                                                documents for collaboration, using comments in Google Docs or Sheets as task lists,
                                                the valuable “suggestion mode” for collaborating on a Doc, plus a few extras. If you
                                                are still sending Word documents back and forth for corrections via email, you need
                                                this workshop. Presenter: Phil Polsinelli
September 17 - FAWN Writing Boot Camp - Boot camps allow participants to write in a distraction-free, structured environment.
                                                You should bring your writing project and writing supplies (laptop, paper, notes,
                                                etc.). You can join us virtually using Zoom. We will email the Zoom link to all registered
                                                participants. The FAWN Blackboard course page also has the Zoom link. Please show
                                                up and join us for any and all days, for all of the time or part of the time. Presenters:
                                                Dr. Aleksondra Hultquist, Associate Professor of Critical Thinking & First Year Studies
                                                and Dr. Melissa Zwick, Associate Professor of Biology
September 19 - Student Collaboration using Google Drive, Docs, and Slides - Think whole-class brainstorming sessions with shared Google Docs or shared notes where
                                                students can add ideas and resources when they work together in groups. Host collaborative
                                                projects where each student can be responsible for a portion of the work. Peer review
                                                is possible with shared docs; peers can edit the document or suggest changes. Group
                                                slideshows allow students to learn from each other as they add pictures, audio, and
                                                even video to create presentations that pull in information from a wide variety of
                                                sources and perspectives. Presenter: Michelle Wendt
September 20 - Google Classroom - Intermediate/Advanced Techniques - For this webinar, we will explore the lesser utilized features of Google Classroom.
                                                Learn how to create, share and reuse rubrics for your assignments. Set up your grading
                                                scale with pre-set weights for assignments, tests and projects. And, learn how to
                                                utilize some Chrome extensions to simplify ways to share content with your students. Presenter:
                                                Michelle Wendt
September 20 -  Setting Up The Year’s Research Agenda - Let’s make plans for the school year.  Come with all of your ideas. We can talk about
                                                brand new ideas or that project that you just can’t seem to finish. Presenter: Christine
                                                Tartaro, Ph.D., Chair, Master of Arts in Criminal Justice, Distinguished Professor
                                                of Criminal Justice, Director, Stockton CSI Summer Camp
September 21 - Having Anti-Bias Discussions in Class - This virtual training will address the importance of creating “brave spaces” to discuss
                                                topics related to prejudice and discrimination in the classroom. Participants will
                                                explore guidelines for discussing sensitive topics, how to manage conflict, and pedagogical
                                                tools that facilitate critical thinking. Participants will also learn how the NJ Law
                                                Against Discrimination protects students and educators from biased-based harassment
                                                and discrimination. Presenter: NJ Division on Civil Rights
September 22 - Google Tools and Add-ons You're not Using but Should Be - This session explores some of the more useful tools that are available from the Google
                                                Suite that are not commonly used. These tools range from organizational/collaborative
                                                tools like Google Keep to browser extensions and add-ons that augment the capabilities
                                                of Google applications and the Chrome Browser. There is something for everyone here. Presenter:
                                                Phil Polsinelli
September 27 - Google Classroom as a Collaborative Tool - While Google Classroom is a valuable tool for administering classes. It can also
                                                be used as an asynchronous collaborative tool for any situation. Learn to use this
                                                tool as a sharing environment for you, your colleagues or anybody you are working
                                                with on a project. This can become your one stop virtual location for all documents,
                                                deadlines and general organization among small or large groups of participants. It
                                                is a great way to keep everything in one place. It can be useful for department chairs,
                                                administrators, organization leaders or sports coaches. Presenter: Phil Polsinelli
September 28 - Recognizing and Responding to Microaggressions - Recently there has been much discussion about microaggressions, the subtle acts of
                                                exclusion that many people routinely experience. This interactive, virtual training
                                                will explore the ways that implicit bias – including microaggressions – manifest in
                                                our lives and impact our relationships with others. Through case studies and discussion,
                                                participants will deepen their understanding of implicit bias, learn how to identify
                                                microaggressions, and investigate strategies for responding effectively to microaggressions
                                                that they experience and commit. Participants will also learn about the NJ Law Against
                                                Discrimination and how microaggressions can contribute to a hostile work or school
                                                environment. Presenter: NJ Division on Civil Rights
September 30 - Finding Relevant Scholarly Journals to Publish In - Dr. Christy Goodnight (BUSN) will lead an interactive workshop on finding relevant
                                                scholarly journal to publish your research. Presenter: Dr. Christy Goodnight
October 6 - Tips on Talking with Community Partners About Scholarship of Engagement
                                                   - Join Anthony Dissen, the Stockton Center for Community Engagement and Service-Learning
                                                Faculty Fellow, on October 6, 2022, for a 15-minute splash of community engagement.
                                                Presenter: Anthony Dissen, Instructor of Health Science
October 12 - What To Do With That Completed Dissertation - Did you recently finish graduate school? Congratulations! Let’s talk about using your
                                                dissertation as part of your research agenda. Presenter: Christine Tartaro, Ph.D.,
                                                Chair, Master of Arts in Criminal Justice, Distinguished Professor of Criminal Justice,
                                                Director, Stockton CSI Summer Camp
October 14 - Open Educational Resource (OER) Workshop -Stockton's Open Textbook & Education Resource Committee (OTERC) invites all faculty
                                                   to attend an Open Educational Resource (OER) Workshop this Friday from 11:30am-12:30pm
                                                   in F207. Food will be provided.  The workshop is for faculty and students to learn
                                                   about Stockton's new Z-course attribute and consider the benefits of OERs. OERs include
                                                   a variety of course materials that are released under an open license allowing faculty
                                                   and students to re-use, re-purpose, adapt and redistribute materials at no cost. Presenter: Dr. Christy Goodnight, Eric Jeitner & Dr. Kathy Klein 
October 18 - Creating and Managing Tests in Blackboard - In this workshop, we’ll explore the various testing options, create quizzes using
                                                a range of question types, and create tests using questions from previously created
                                                tests. Presenter: Roberto Castillo, Senior Instructional Specialist

October 20 - Preparing for Student Ratings of Teaching - This session offers an overview of date/administration options for the Fall 2022
                                                survey, the differences between IDEA and the Small Class Instrument (SCI), choosing
                                                appropriate objectives, and improving response rates. Presenter: Alaina Walton, Director
                                                of Academic Assessment
October 24 - First Year File Construction & Faculty Plan - The session is designed for first year faculty and will focus on file construction
                                                and creating a faculty plan. Facilitated by: Kerri Sowers, Associate Professor of
                                                Health Science and CTLD Professional Development and Evaluation Fellow, and Dr. Heather
                                                McGovern, Professor of Writing & First - Year Studies
October 27 - Communication Tools in Blackboard - The announcement, discussion board and email are options in Blackboard for faculty
                                                to communicate with students and encourage collaboration, while building course communities
                                                and encouraging academic discussion outside the classroom. Presenter: Roberto Castillo,
                                                Senior Instructional Specialist
October 27 - Pregnancy Discrimination Developments- Husch Blackwell -Overview of legal requirements, New Title IX proposed rules, Recent case law, Hypothetical scenarios, Practical guidance
                                                for accommodating pregnancy, Host: School of Natural Sciences and Mathematics. Presenter:
                                                Kristine Zayko
November 1 - LGBTQ+ Issues - Husch Blackwell -Legal principles and key case developments, New proposed Title IX regulations, Use of pronouns, Accommodations and best practices,
                                                Host: School of Health Sciences. Presenter: Kristine Zayko
November 3 - Checking In On Your Research Projects, No Matter How Underdeveloped - Come to brainstorm about projects. Bring brand new ideas or questions about how to
                                                proceed with a project already in progress. Presenter: Christine Tartaro, Ph.D., Chair,
                                                Master of Arts in Criminal Justice, Distinguished Professor of Criminal Justice, Director,
                                                Stockton CSI Summer Camp, CTLD Research Faculty Fellow
 
                                                   November 4 - Second Year File Construction & Faculty Plan - The session is designed for second year faculty and will focus on file construction
                                                and making any necessary modifications to your faculty plan. Facilitated by: Kerri
                                                Sowers, Associate Professor of Health Science and CTLD Professional Development and
                                                Evaluation Fellow, and Dr. Heather McGovern, Professor of Writing & First - Year Studies
November 9 - Posting and Grading Assignments in Blackboard - Participants will learn how to create a Blackboard Assignment, access student papers,
                                                provide students feedback using the Annotation tools and grade papers. Presenter:
                                                Roberto Castillo, Senior Instructional Specialist
November 9 - Providing Accessible Course Materials with Blackboard Ally - Learn to use the Blackboard Ally tool available in all Stockton Blackboard courses
                                                to generate alternative document formats critical for individuals with disabilities
                                                using screen readers or other assistive technology.  Alternate formats allow course
                                                materials to meet a variety of student learning preferences and needs. Presenter:
                                                Dr. Kathy Klein, Executive Director, Center for Teaching & Learning Design
November 10 - Creating Your Self-Care Toolkit - Burnout is a very real response to environmental stress and is often made all the
                                                more intense when we feel we are out of control and overwhelmed by what causes us
                                                stress. By creating a plan on how to deal with stress and burnout when they arise,
                                                particularly when we know stressful events and moments are on the horizon, we greatly
                                                improve our abilities to be resilient in the face of stress and to reduce the levels
                                                of burnout and fatigue we experience. Come and learn how to build your burnout prevention
                                                toolkit that takes a realistic approach to what is possible, what is impossible, and
                                                what will truly serve you well. Presenter: Anthony Dissen, EdD, MPH, MA, RDN, CPH
 
                                                   November 11 - Third Year File Construction - The session is designed for third year faculty and will focus on file construction. Facilitated
                                                by: Kerri Sowers, Associate Professor of Health Science and CTLD Professional Development
                                                and Evaluation Fellow, and Dr. Heather McGovern, Professor of Writing & First - Year
                                                Studies
 
                                                   November 11 - Fourth Year File Construction - The session is designed for fourth year faculty and will focus on file construction. Facilitated
                                                by: Kerri Sowers, Associate Professor of Health Science and CTLD Professional Development
                                                and Evaluation Fellow, and Dr. Heather McGovern, Professor of Writing & First - Year
                                                Studies
 
                                                   November 11 - Fifth Year File Construction - The session is designed for fifth year faculty and will focus on file construction. Facilitated
                                                by: Kerri Sowers, Associate Professor of Health Science and CTLD Professional Development
                                                and Evaluation Fellow, and Dr. Heather McGovern, Professor of Writing & First - Year
                                                Studies
November 14 - Work Based Learning: Transitional Jobs - This workshop takes a closer look at transitional jobs, a type of work-based learning
                                                that especially focuses on candidates with barriers to employment. Trainees will learn
                                                how a transitional jobs program benefits employers, candidates, and workforce professionals.
                                                Trainees will also review key players, essential documentation, sample processes,
                                                and monitoring and auditing best practices. Trainees will conclude with an activity
                                                to plan next steps at the local level for improving or starting a transitional jobs
                                                program. Presented by: Garden State Employment and Training Association (GSETA)
November 15 - Managing Students' Grades with the Blackboard Grade Center - The Blackboard Grade Center is a great tool for tracking grades and providing feedback
                                                to students about their performance and learning. You'll learn how to use the Grade
                                                Center to record and calculate grades, provide comments, and customize the Grade Center
                                                for easier use. Presenter: Roberto Castillo, Senior Instructional Specialist
 
                                                   November 17 - Range Adjustment Information Session - The session is designed for faculty who are interested in learning more about the
                                                procedures and file construction process for range adjustment. Facilitated by: Kerri
                                                Sowers, Associate Professor of Health Science and CTLD Professional Development and
                                                Evaluation Fellow, and Dr. Heather McGovern, Professor of Writing & First - Year Studies

November 30 - Understanding the Needs of LGBTQIA+ Youth - New Jersey has been at the forefront of fostering equality for its LGBTQIA+ young
                                                people, including strong protections in the NJ Law Against Discrimination, incorporation
                                                of LGBTQIA+ content in school curricula, and the extension of rights for transgender
                                                people. Yet LGBTQIA+ youth remain at disproportionate risk for bullying, harassment,
                                                homelessness, suicide, and involvement in the foster care and law enforcement systems.
                                                This interactive training will introduce participants to the varied identities and
                                                experiences of LGBTQIA+ youth, explore the types of bias and discrimination they face,
                                                and offer strategies for protecting their rights in various settings. Presented by:
                                                The New Jersey Division on Civil Rights (DCR)
December 1 - Open Educational Resource (OER) Workshop - Stockton's Open Textbook & Education Resource Committee (OTERC) invites all faculty
                                                   to attend an Open Educational Resource (OER) Workshop this Thursday from 12:30 pm
                                                   to 1:30 pm in F207. Food will be provided.  The workshop is for faculty and students
                                                   to learn about Stockton's new Z-course attribute and consider the benefits of OERs.
                                                   OERs include a variety of course materials that are released under an open license
                                                   allowing faculty and students to re-use, re-purpose, adapt and redistribute materials
                                                   at no cost. Presenters: Dr. Christy Goodnight, Eric Jeitner & Dr. Kathy Klein 
 
                                                   December 2 - NTTP, XIII-D, XIII-O, PT File Construction - This workshop is designed for NTTP, XIII-D, XIII-O, and part-time faculty and will
                                                focus on the file construction process necessary for annual reviews. Facilitated by:
                                                Kerri Sowers, Associate Professor of Health Science and CTLD Professional Development
                                                and Evaluation Fellow, and Dr. Heather McGovern, Professor of Writing & First - Year
                                                Studies
December 6 - Having Anti-Bias Discussions in Class - This virtual training will address the importance of creating “brave spaces” to discuss
                                                topics related to prejudice and discrimination in the classroom. Participants will
                                                explore guidelines for discussing sensitive topics, how to manage conflict, and pedagogical
                                                tools that facilitate critical thinking. Participants will also learn how the NJ Law
                                                Against Discrimination protects students and educators from biased-based harassment
                                                and discrimination. Presented by: The New Jersey Division on Civil Rights (DCR)
Friday, December 9 - The Calculus of ‘What Counts’? - It can be hard to determine your research and writing goals in the years leading to
                                                tenure and/or promotion.  We are plagued by the eternal question (panic?) of “what
                                                counts.”  While FAWN cannot answer those questions for you (in general, the answers
                                                are “peer-reviewed” and “it depends”), we can put you on the path to figuring out
                                                what might count for you: whom to ask, where to find the answers, how to think about
                                                your work in light of your tenure/promotion goals. Come with your current CV, your
                                                Program Standards, and most recent tenure narrative ready to interactively negotiate
                                                these questions. Presenter:  Dr. Aleksondra Hultquist, Associate Professor of Critical
                                                Thinking & First Year Studies
December 13 - Your Legal Rights as Educators Training - Educators have the right to work and students have the right to learn in a school
                                                environment free from discrimination and bias-based harassment. In this training,
                                                educators will learn about their rights and obligations under the New Jersey Law Against
                                                Discrimination (LAD) and the New Jersey Family Leave Act (NJFLA). Using legal case
                                                studies and examples, participants will explore when conduct crosses the line to become
                                                a violation of the LAD, and how to respond when they witness or experience discrimination
                                                or harassment. Additional topics include the rights of pregnant and breast feeding
                                                employees, family leave, and retaliation. Presented by: The New Jersey Division on
                                                Civil Rights (DCR)
December 15 - End of Year Critical Thinking Wrap Up - The Stockton Critical Thinking Institute cordially invites you to review the semester
                                                while it's still fresh in your mind. Take a break from grading and existential despair.
                                                Join us to discuss what worked, what bombed, and what you might do differently next
                                                time. These sessions are entertaining and useful, but they are always better with
                                                more voices. Whether you’re an SCTI Frequent Flyer or just critical thinking curious,
                                                I hope you’ll take a few minutes out of your day to share your experience, talk shop,
                                                celebrate and commiserate with your smart and insightful colleagues. Presenter: Jed
                                                Morfit, Professor of Art
December 19 & 20 - Writing Boot Camp - Atlantic City - FAWN will be hosting two Writing Boot Camp days in person at the Atlantic City campus
                                                and online via Zoom. Breakfast and lunch will be provided for those joining us in
                                                person. We will be hosting two rooms, a scholarly writing room for you to work on
                                                your scholarly writing and research projects, and a file room for you to work on your
                                                recontracting file, tenure file, and/or promotion file. 
File Writing Room: AC 312 and online - Current and past members of the FRC and senior colleagues will be in the file room
                                                to answer any questions you may have as you put your file together.  
Scholarly Writing Room: AC 310 and online - Christine Tartaro, CTLD Research Fellow, will be in the scholarly writing room to
                                                answer questions related to your research projects
Professional Development Sessions
June 2 - Understanding Your IDEA Scores - IDEA provides so much more guidance beyond the "Excellent Teacher, Excellent Course"
                                                average score. This workshop will take a deep dive into what your IDEA scores say
                                                about the objectives you've chosen, the teaching methods you use, and how students
                                                connect learning objectives with teaching style, assessments, and so much more. We
                                                will discuss practical ways to improve your scores using the individualized suggestions
                                                embedded within IDEA. In addition, faculty will walk away with suggestions on how
                                                to write about IDEA for tenure/promotion files and scholarship. Presenter: Alaina
                                                Walton, Director of Academic Assessment
June 2 -  Setting Up Weighted Averages in Blackboard - Are you tired of students asking you for their status in your courses? Did you spend
                                                too much time this month figuring out student final grades? Setting up weighted averages
                                                in Blackboard (BB) saves time in calculating final grades and allows students to track
                                                their own progress. This is a hands-on workshop and attendees will practice using
                                                the weighted average feature in BB. Presenter: Dr. Rachel Kirzner, Associate Professor
                                                of Social Work
June 6 - Google Classroom Essentials for Beginners - Digitally organize, distribute, and collect assignments, course materials (think:
                                                videos, websites, PDFs, and more), and student work. Communicate with students about
                                                their classwork by posting announcements and reminders about assignments, and easily
                                                see who has or hasn't completed their work. You can also check in with individual
                                                students privately, answer their questions, and offer support. Within Google Classroom,
                                                it's possible to use Google Forms to create and share quizzes that are automatically
                                                graded as students turn them in to get instant feedback on their work. Presenter:
                                                Michelle Wendt, Technology Integration Specialist & Adjunct Faculty
June 10 - Stockton University Leadership Series for New Program Chairs - Chairs Chat - The Leadership Series for New Program Chairs is a professional development opportunity
                                                for faculty who are new to the academic leadership position of Program Chair. Program
                                                Chairs (new and experienced) are provided with access to materials and information
                                                about the sessions covering topics of importance in meeting leadership responsibilities.
                                                Presenter: Kathy Klein
June 14 - Google Classroom- Intermediate/Advanced Techniques - For this webinar, we will explore the lesser utilized features of Google Classroom.
                                                Learn how to create, share and reuse rubrics for your assignments. Set up your grading
                                                scale with pre-set weights for assignments, tests and projects. And, learn how to
                                                utilize some Chrome extensions to simplify ways to share content with your students. Presenter:
                                                Michelle Wendt, Technology Integration Specialist & Adjunct Faculty
June 15 - Understanding Your IDEA Scores - IDEA provides so much more guidance beyond the "Excellent Teacher, Excellent Course"
                                                average score. This workshop will take a deep dive into what your IDEA scores say
                                                about the objectives you've chosen, the teaching methods you use, and how students
                                                connect learning objectives with teaching style, assessments, and so much more. We
                                                will discuss practical ways to improve your scores using the individualized suggestions
                                                embedded within IDEA. In addition, faculty will walk away with suggestions on how
                                                to write about IDEA for tenure/promotion files and scholarship. Presenter: Alaina
                                                Walton, Director of Academic Assessment
June 16 - Student Collaboration using Google Drive, Docs, and Slides - Think whole-class brainstorming sessions with shared Google Docs or shared notes where
                                                students can add ideas and resources when they work together in groups. Host collaborative
                                                projects where each student can be responsible for a portion of the work. Peer review
                                                is possible with shared docs; peers can edit the document or suggest changes. Group
                                                slideshows allow students to learn from each other as they add pictures, audio, and
                                                even video to create presentations that pull in information from a wide variety of
                                                sources and perspectives. Presenter: Michelle Wendt, Technology Integration Specialist
                                                & Adjunct Faculty
June 20 - FAWN Pop-Up Bootcamp with Benefits! - Join us for a pop-up bootcamp: breakfast, lunch and post-writing yoga stretches included.
8:30 – 9:00 -Breakfast (provided)9:00 - 9:15 - Settle in and share your goals for the day9:15 - 10:45 - Write10:45 - 11:00 - Break11:00 - 12:30 - Write12:30 - 1:15 – Lunch (provided)1:15 - 2:45 - Write2:45 - 3:00 - Share progress on your goals3:00 – 3:30 gentle yoga stretches to counteract sitting/typing fatigue
Participants are welcome all day, part of the day, face-to-face and online.
Faclitators: Dr. Aleksondra Hultquist, Associate Professor of Critical Thinking and
                                                First-Year Studies and Dr. Melissa Zwick, Associate Professor of Biology & Physical
                                                Therapy

August 10 - Developing Students' Global Perspectives Through Virtual Exchanges with
                                                   International Universities - If you’re interested in pairing your students to work with students around the world
                                                in Fall 2022, join us at this session! I will introduce various opportunities for
                                                your classes, including  various models that would work for your courses, including
                                                a Plug-in Module (Global Connect/Collaborate Project) or a Tailored Course-Based Module
                                                (COIL: Collaborative Online International Learning). Through these virtual exchanges,
                                                our students will develop global perspectives, interdisciplinary breadth, and intercultural
                                                competence. Presenter: JY Zhou, Ed.D., Director and SIO, Office of Global Engagement 
August 17 - Assignment Alignment: Connecting the dots from assignments to outcomes
                                                   and IDEA objectives - Bring your syllabus to this hands-on workshop as we discuss how to best align assignments
                                                to course-level student learning outcomes and IDEA objectives. Presenter: Dr. Alaina
                                                Walton, Director of Academic Assessment
August 18 - Best Practices in Syllabus Design - In this session, we'll go over best practices when creating or revising your course
                                                syllabus. Read the article on "How to Create a Syllabus" and come prepare to discuss
                                                how to draft a student-centered syllabus that can help students succeed in your course. Presenter:
                                                Roberto Castillo, Senior Instructional Specialist
August 22 - Blackboard for Beginners - This session will introduce participants to Stockton’s learning management system,
                                                Blackboard. We will review Blackboard layout and structure for adding and creating
                                                course content. Presenter: Roberto Castillo, Senior Instructional Specialist
Aug 23 - Writing program-level student learning outcomes
Aug 30 - Mapping your curriculum
This 5-part series for program chairs and assessment sub-committees builds on the
                                                assessment modules that can be found on the Office of Academic Assessment website.
                                                Please watch the modules ahead of time, complete any of the optional activities that
                                                sound interesting to you, and come to the live sessions ready to discuss the weekly
                                                topic.  Presenter: Dr. Alaina Walton, Director of Academic Assessment
Professional Development Sessions
January 21 - Overview of Program Review Committee (PRC) Responsibilities - This session is designed for faculty who are members of a Program Review Committee.
                                                 The session will review faculty evaluation procedures and the responsibilities of
                                                PRC members. Presenters: Dennis Fotia, Assistant Director of the Center for Teaching
                                                & Learning Design and Dr. Kerri Sowers, Faculty Review Committee (FRC) Chair & Associate
                                                Professor of Health Science. 
January 24 - Setting Up and Progressing with the Spring Research Agenda - Let’s get started with plans to set up a research agenda and carve out some time
                                                this semester to do it. Come with ideas or just show up to be inspired by others and
                                                their plans. Presenter: Christine Tartaro
January 25 - Students and Freedom of Expression on Campus - Today’s students are challenging free-speech norms and are more likely than older
                                                generations to support restrictions that limit offensive speech. What’s more, the
                                                rise of social media, new sexual-harassment policies, and demands for more racial
                                                diversity and inclusiveness have sometimes complicated free expression on campus.
                                                In this environment, how can colleges promote open inquiry and discussion while balancing
                                                changing attitudes?
Join us for a virtual forum that brings together Michael S. Roth, the president of
                                                Wesleyan University, and other experts to share their perspectives on these topics:
How is free expression evolving on college campuses?How do college leaders respond to claims that their institutions have become unwelcoming
                                                places for certain views?How can colleges mitigate potential conflicts when they do arise?
January 28 - Stockton University Leadership Series for New Program Chairs - Diversity,
                                                   Equity and Inclusion & Decolonizing Pedagogy - The Leadership Series for New Program Chairs is a professional development opportunity
                                                for faculty who are new to the academic leadership position of Program Chair. Program
                                                Chairs (new and experienced) are provided with access to materials and information
                                                about the sessions covering topics of importance in meeting leadership responsibilities. Presenter:
                                                Dr. Guia Calicdan-Apostle, Associate Professor of Social Work & CTLD Diversity Faculty
                                                Fellow
January 28 - IDEA Forms are not Enough: Practical Approaches to Formative Assessment
                                                   of Teaching - In this session we will  go over various approaches to formative assessment during
                                                the semester. The emphasis will be on using formative assessment as a strategy to
                                                respond to fall IDEA survey feedback. Presenter: Rachel Kirzner
January 31 - National Science Foundation 2022 Policy Office Webinar Series - Current
                                                   and Pending Support Policy -  The National Science Foundation will hold the first webinar of its 2022 Policy Office
                                                Information Series. The webinar will be held on January 31, 2022, from 2-3 p.m. EST.
                                                The topic will focus on current and pending support policy. The webinar will include
                                                frequently asked questions following the program overview. Presenter: The National
                                                Science Foundation
February 11 - Introduction to Zotero: Collecting, Organizing, and Citing Sources - In this workshop, you will be introduced to Zotero's key features that can help you
                                                save and organize your research sources. Learn how to set up Zotero, save sources,
                                                and create a bibliography in your preferred citation style. Before the workshop, you
                                                will be asked to download the free Zotero app onto your computer. Presenters: Dr.
                                                Aleksondra Hultquist and Dr. Melissa Zwick
February 14 - 18 - Week of Teaching 2022 - Week of Teaching offers a variety of activities that celebrate teaching, learning,
                                                assessment, and the Scholarship of Teaching and Learning (SoTL) at Stockton. During
                                                Week of Teaching, connect with your colleagues and learn from our very own homegrown
                                                experts about a variety of topics. Attend classes taught by colleagues and participate
                                                in roundtable discussions and other types of sessions.
February 17 - Having Anti-Bias Discussions in Class - This interactive session will be facilitated by the NJ Division on Civil Rights.
                                                Participants will address the importance of creating “brave spaces” and explore guidelines
                                                for discussing sensitive topics, managing conflict, and be introduced to pedagogical
                                                tools that facilitate critical thinking. Contact: Elissa ZylbershlagNJ Division on Civil Rights
February 18 - Stockton University Leadership Series for New Program Chairs - Professional
                                                   Development - We hope you will join us in lively discussion about faculty and personal professional
                                                development needs. Beyond professional development related to our academic areas of
                                                expertise, how might we view professional development differently as faculty in leadership
                                                positions? What topics, skills, and resources would best help us develop in our roles as chairs and coordinators? We'll also consider how to advise and guide
                                                   the faculty colleagues we mentor in seeking meaningful professional development opportunities.
                                                   Presenters: Christy Cunningham & Kathy Klein.
February 18 - Committing to Completing That Old Project - Do you have a project that has just been sitting there? It’s time to finish it.  Let’s
                                                talk about what still needs to be done and develop a plan do to it! Presenter: Christine
                                                Tartaro
February 23 - Technology and Pedagogy - Have you been wondering how to implement new tech-based teaching methods? Not sure
                                                what will help meet your specific teaching goals? Want to increase student engagement
                                                using tech tools? Drop in to this session to discuss your specific classes and goals. Presenter:
                                                Rachel Kirzner
March 2 - Formative Assessment: Collecting and Incorporating Midsemester Feedback
                                                   - Not sure if your class is going well? Is there a specific teaching approach you would
                                                like to evaluate? Don’t wait until the end of semester. March is the perfect time
                                                to evaluate progress and plan course corrections while there is still time to implement
                                                them. Presenter: Rachel Kirzner
March 4 - I Don’t Want A Book Report, I Want an Argument: Using Critical Thinking
                                                   Tools To Create Better Writing Assignments - In this session, we will be looking at how the critical thinking tools can be used
                                                to help students write clear and persuasive arguments by identifying QUESTIONS, articulating
                                                GOALS, questioning ASSUMPTIONS, and clarifying POINTS OF VIEW. Presenter: Jed Morfit
March 8 - Coming Up with New Research Ideas - Let’s talk about those ideas in your head and come up with concrete ways to turn
                                                them into manageable research projects. Presenter: Christine Tartaro
March 9 - Having Anti-Bias Discussions in Class - This interactive session will be facilitated by the NJ Division on Civil Rights. Participants
                                                will address the importance of creating “brave spaces” and explore guidelines for
                                                discussing sensitive topics, managing conflict, and be introduced to pedagogical tools
                                                that facilitate critical thinking. Contact: Elissa Zylbershlag, NJ Division on Civil
                                                Rights
March 17 - Organizing Course Content in Blackboard for Face-to-Face and Hybrid courses
                                                   - In this session participants will review effective strategies to organize and provide
                                                course content and resources for students to access remotely in face-to-face or hybrid
                                                courses. Presenter: Dennis Fotia
March 22 - Planning for FY23: Preparing Faculty for Success - In 2021, AAC&U and OneHE formed a partnership to promote flexible, affordable,
                                                faculty development that scales. Since then, OneHE has been adopted by several institutions
                                                and systems in the United States, while the team have worked with many leading experts
                                                in teaching and learning to share their knowledge with educators. In this webinar,
                                                we will hear the perspectives of faculty and experts working with OneHE, explore the
                                                ways in which the service continues to adapt to meet the needs of a broad range of
                                                institutions, and reveal new features and benefits coming soon to OneHE members. Hosted
                                                by: AAC&U and OneHE
March 24 - Your Legal Rights as Educators - In this training, educators will learn about their rights and obligations under the
                                                New Jersey Law Against Discrimination (LAD) and the New Jersey Family Leave Act (NJFLA).
                                                Participants will explore when conduct crosses the line to become a violation of the
                                                LAD, and how to respond when they witness or experience discrimination or harassment.
                                                Additional topics include the rights of pregnant and breastfeeding employees, family
                                                leave and retaliation. Presented by: The New Jersey Division on Civil Rights (DCR) 
March 24 - 15-Minute Splash of Community Engagement - Join us on March 24, 2022, at 4:30 pm for a 15-minutes presentation on best practices
                                                for community engagement and community-based research. Representatives from the Atlantic
                                                City Police Department and the Salvation Army will join us. Presenter: Merydawilda
                                                Colón
March 25 - I JUST WANT TO BE HAPPY - Using Critical Thinking During PRECEPTING - While a future spent being happy is a nice idea, it fails the critical thinking sniff
                                                test. Here are some CT-based questions I have followed up with in the past. What is your DEFINITION of happy? What makes you happy? When was the last time you
                                                   were happy? Can that experience be repeated? Do you think that experience will continue
                                                   to make you happy in the future? What makes you unhappy? Is that something that can
                                                   be avoided? What ASSUMPTIONS do you have about the relationship between money and
                                                   happiness? What does “enough” money look like to you? How did you arrive at that number?
                                                   What INFORMATION do you have about money? What INFORMATION do you have about salaries
                                                   in your major? Do you know anybody who has a comparable degree who the kind of money
                                                   you are imaging? What does their career look like? What ASSUMPTIONS do you have about
                                                   careers in your field? Are those ASSUMPTIONS accurate? How do you know? So, if you would like to help students have more meaningful conversations about their
                                                   future, and to help them assess what they know and don’t know about what comes next,
                                                   please join me THIS FRIDAY, from 10 to 11:30 AM. This session will primarily be a
                                                   collaborative conversation, and will not be recorded. Feel free to drop in late and
                                                   leave early. Presenter: Jed Morfit.
March 25 -  Stockton University Leadership Series for New Program Chairs - Student
                                                   Resources - This Leadership Series is a professional development opportunity designed for faculty
                                                who are new to the academic leadership position of Program Chair or Coordinator. Program
                                                Chairs and Coordinators (new and experienced) register to receive access to materials
                                                and information covering topics of importance in meeting leadership responsibilities.
                                                Participants review materials and come together for an interactive one-hour session
                                                to network, discuss the topic, and ask questions. To access materials and the Zoom
                                                link, email the CTLD (ctld@stockton.edu) to register for this session. Presenters:
                                                Chrissy Easton & Chrissy Feil, Case Management Specialists.
March 28 - The Role of Faculty in Student Success - The non-profit Gardner Institute and Capital University invite you to a summit and
                                                call to action. This discussion will look to Ohio as a replicable model to encourage
                                                participants in exploring the definition of student success and the role of faculty
                                                in student success. Our goal is to inspire you to take action at your institution
                                                to clarify and be more intentional about this critical role. The summit is a free,
                                                two-hour event open to the higher education community. This summit is an outcome of
                                                a Pre-Conference Workshop on ‘The Role of Faculty in Student Success. This workshop
                                                preceded the conference on Inspiring Practices in Student Success which took place
                                                in February 2020 at Capital University. As an outgrowth of that forum, this white
                                                paper was written. Focusing on current evidence from the field, with exemplars submitted
                                                by conference attendees in response to a call for Ohio “best practices.” “The Role
                                                of Faculty in Student Success” is the basis of this summit, and is available to download
                                                here. Hosted by: Capital University in partnership with the John N. Gardner Institute
                                                for Excellence in Undergraduate Education  


April 5 - Having Anti-Bias Discussions in Class - This virtual training will address the importance of creating “brave spaces” to discuss
                                                topics related to prejudice and discrimination in the classroom. Participants will
                                                explore guidelines for discussing sensitive topics, how to manage conflict, and pedagogical
                                                tools that facilitate critical thinking. Participants will also learn how the NJ Law
                                                Against Discrimination protects students and educators from biased-based harassment
                                                and discrimination. Presented by: The New Jersey Division on Civil Rights (DCR) 
April 6 - Setting Up the Summer Research Agenda - Let’s come up with your summer plan. Presenter: Dr. Christine Tartaro, Professor of
                                                Criminal Justice
April 6 - Your Legal Rights as Educators - In this training, educators will learn about their rights and obligations under the
                                                New Jersey Law Against Discrimination (LAD) and the New Jersey Family Leave Act (NJFLA).
                                                Participants will explore when conduct crosses the line to become a violation of the
                                                LAD, and how to respond when they witness or experience discrimination or harassment.
                                                Additional topics include the rights of pregnant and breastfeeding employees, family
                                                leave and retaliation. Presented by: The New Jersey Division on Civil Rights (DCR) 
April 8 - Clearing the Decks - Clean out the mental and physical clutter that is preventing you from making and
                                                attaining your writing goals. Based on one of the steps in Leo Babauta’s Zen to Done,
                                                this workshop will help you define what is important, help you manage your inboxes,
                                                and get your workload to a manageable place and pace so you have space for your research
                                                and writing. This is an active workshop—the goal is for you to have a clear desk and
                                                inbox by the end of the workshop. Presenters: Dr. Aleksondra Hultquist, Associate
                                                Professor of Critical Thinking and First-Year Studies and Dr. Melissa Zwick, Associate
                                                Professor of Biology & Physical Therapy
April 13 - Organizing Course Content in Blackboard for Fully Online Courses - In this session participants will review effective strategies to organize and provide
                                                course content and resources for students to access remotely in fully online courses. Presenter:
                                                Dennis Fotia, Assistant Director of the Center for Teaching & Learning Design
April 13 - Using the Blackboard Grade Center - As the end of the semester approaches, there are some final tasks you can take care
                                                of in Blackboard Grade Center, to make your courses end successfully. In this session,
                                                you will learn how to manage the Grade Center. Special attention will be given on
                                                the Weighted Total Column. Presenter: Dennis Fotía, Assistant Director of the Center
                                                for Teaching & Learning Design
April 18 - Developing Students' Global Perspectives Through Global Virtual Exchange
                                                   - Let’s plan for Fall 2022! We will discuss three ways to pair your students to communicate
                                                and work with students in international institutions to develop global perspectives,
                                                interdisciplinary breadth, and intercultural competence. COIL (Collaborative Online
                                                International Learning): We pair your courses with similar courses offered in our
                                                partner institutions. Global Connect/Collaborate/Circles: You can plan some class
                                                time or assignments for this 2-, 5-, or 8-weeks plug-in module. Qisasna: A plug-in
                                                module with US-Yemen exchange to produce Podcasts on various topics on global challenges.
                                                Presenter: JY Zhou, Director and SIO, Office of Global Engagement
April 22 - Tips for Ending A Course Successfully - A lot of energy goes into planning and teaching a course especially at the beginning
                                                of the semester.  After all of the weeks invested in teaching, building a learning
                                                community, and demonstrating care for our students, how do we end the course to provide
                                                positive closure? This interactive session will engage faculty in a conversation about
                                                strategies that provide an opportunity to end a course successfully.  Join us to make
                                                sure your final course session creates a lasting and positive impression for your
                                                students. Presenter: Dr. Kathy Klein, Executive Director and Tenured Associate Professor
                                                of Occupational Therapy
April 22 - Stockton University Leadership Series for New Program Chairs - Annual Program
                                                   Report - This Leadership Series is a professional development opportunity designed for faculty
                                                who are new to the academic leadership position of Program Chair or Coordinator. Program
                                                Chairs and Coordinators (new and experienced) register to receive access to materials
                                                and information covering topics of importance in meeting leadership responsibilities.
                                                Participants review materials and come together for an interactive one-hour session
                                                to network, discuss the topic, and ask questions. To access materials and the Zoom
                                                link, email the CTLD (ctld@stockton.edu) to register for this session. Presenter:
                                                Alaina Walton, Director of Academic Assessment
April 27 - Rewards and Methods of Successful Planning in Community Engagement - Join the Stockton Center for Community Engagement and Service-Learning Faculty Fellows
                                                on April 27, 2022, for a 15-minutes splash of community engagement. Presenters: Dr.
                                                Connie Tang, Professor of Psychology and Anthony Dissen, Instructor of Health Science
May 6 - So, How Did It GO? - Please join me for the last critical thinking workshop of the semester. We’ll talk
                                                about what worked, what didn’t, and make a plan for next semester while the sting
                                                of this one is still fresh. Hope to see you all there. Presenter: Jed Morfit, Associate
                                                Professor of Art
May 6 - Stockton University Leadership Series for New Program Chairs - Exploring Your
                                                   Career Goals - This Leadership Series is a professional development opportunity designed for faculty
                                                who are new to the academic leadership position of Program Chair or Coordinator. Program
                                                Chairs and Coordinators (new and experienced) register to receive access to materials
                                                and information covering topics of importance in meeting leadership responsibilities.
                                                Participants review materials and come together for an interactive one-hour session
                                                to network, discuss the topic, and ask questions. To access materials and the Zoom
                                                link, email the CTLD (ctld@stockton.edu) to register for this session.  Presenters:
                                                Dr. Lisa Honoker, Dean, School of Arts & Humanities & Professor of British Literature
                                                & Dr. Marissa Levy, Dean, School of Social and Behavioral Sciences & Tenured Professor
                                                of Criminal Justice
May 17 & May 18 - FAWN Writing Retreat - We are excited to announce our two-day FAWN May Writing Retreat. Day 1 (Tuesday,
                                                May 17th) will feature Zoom workshops with writing expert Helen Sword. Day 2 (Wednesday,
                                                May 18th) will be an in-person and online Writing Boot Camp with Benefits (breakfast,
                                                lunch, focused writing time, yoga, etc.) at the Atlantic City Campus. All the details
                                                are below. Space is limited so please register early.
Day 1: Workshops 1 and 2 will be led by Dr. Helen Sword (University of Auckland) with
                                                a workshop prep session led by Dr. Aleksondra Hultquist. There will be a 30-minute
                                                break between each workshop. Feel free to attend whichever combination of workshop(s)
                                                fit your schedule.
Day 2: Spend your day in a focused writing room with a schedule designed to optimize your
                                                   writing time.
Guest Speaker: Dr. Helen Sword (University of Auckland)Facilitators: Dr. Aleksondra Hultquist, Associate Professor of Critical Thinking and
                                                First-Year Studies and Dr. Melissa Zwick, Associate Professor of Biology & Physical
                                                Therapy
May 19 - Google Classroom as a Collaborative Tool - While Google Classroom is a valuable tool for administering classes. It can also be
                                                used as an asynchronous collaborative tool for any situation. Learn to use this tool
                                                as a sharing environment for you, your colleagues or anybody you are working with
                                                on a project. This can become your one stop virtual location for all documents, deadlines,
                                                and general organization among small or large groups of participants. It is a great
                                                way to keep everything in one place. Presenter: Phil Polsinelli, Assistant Director/Southern
                                                Regional ETTC
May 20 - Collaborative Google Tools for Faculty and Staff - This webinar focuses on collaboration with your colleagues and provides valuable techniques
                                                for any project involving more than one participant. Topics that will be explored
                                                include: The how and why of creating a shared Google drive for your team, sharing
                                                documents for collaboration, using comments in Google Docs or Sheets as task lists,
                                                the valuable “suggestion mode” for collaborating on a Doc, plus a few extras. If you
                                                are still sending Word documents back and forth for corrections via email, you need
                                                this workshop. Presenter: Phil Polsinelli, Assistant Director/Southern Regional ETTC
May 23 - Setting Up Your Summer Research Agenda - We finally have time to focus on our research, so let’s set up a plan.  Do you want
                                                to start a new project, finish one in progress, or revisit something that’s been sitting
                                                for a while? Come and discuss. Presenter: Dr. Christine Tartaro, Chair, Master of
                                                Arts in Criminal Justice, Professor of Criminal Justice and Director, Stockton CSI
                                                Summer Camp
May 25 - Kahoot Quizzes - Kahoot is an online quiz site that can be used for synchronous or asynchronous class
                                                activities. Learn how to quickly design Kahoot quizzes to implement for your course.
                                                 Kahoot quizzes can be used for numerous purposes including ice breakers, formative
                                                assessment, and polling/course feedback. This is a hands-on workshop and attendees
                                                will leave the event with a completed quiz to use in their next course. Presenter:
                                                Dr. Rachel Kirzner, Associate Professor of Social Work
May 26 - Google Tools and Add-ons You're not Using but Should Be - This session explores some of the more useful tools that are available from the Google
                                                Suite that are not commonly used. These tools range from organizational/collaborative
                                                tools like Google Keep to browser extensions and add-ons that augment the capabilities
                                                of Google applications and the Chrome Browser. There is something for everyone here. Presenter:
                                                Phil Polsinelli, Assistant Director/Southern Regional ETTC
May 24, 25 & 26 - Summer Institute for Peer Evaluation of Teaching (SIPET) - This institute promotes the development of peer observation and evaluations skills
                                                for all course delivery methods (face-to-face, hybrid, and online) as well as course
                                                types (studios, labs, seminars, lectures, etc.). The expectations for those participating
                                                in the 2022 SIPET are governed by the Summer Institute for Peer Evaluation of Teaching
                                                (2013), which specifies that those completing the workshop carry out at least four
                                                peer evaluations (no time limit) as well as agree to be available, during the two
                                                years following participation, for no more than three brief consultations with faculty
                                                carrying out peer evaluations but have not attended SIPET training. Facilitators:
                                                CTLD Executive Director, Dr. Kathy Klein and SIPET Faculty Facilitators, Dr. Liz Shobe,
                                                Professor of Psychology and Dr. Meg White, Associate Professor of Education
Professional Development Sessions
January 4 - Google Classroom Essentials for Beginners - Digitally organize, distribute, and collect assignments, course materials (think:
                                                videos, websites, PDFs, and more), and student work. Communicate with students about
                                                their classwork by posting announcements and reminders about assignments, and easily
                                                see who has or hasn't completed their work. You can also check in with individual
                                                students privately, answer their questions, and offer support.  Within Google Classroom,
                                                it's possible to use Google Forms to create and share quizzes that are automatically
                                                graded as students turn them in to get instant feedback on their work. Presenter:
                                                Michelle Wendt. Join Session: https://stockton.zoom.us/j/99865459064?pwd=elJiTXRCT1FDNDJrRHBVVFk4NklkZz09.
                                                Password: 054580
January 4 - Collaborative Google Tools for Faculty and Staff - This webinar focuses on collaboration with your colleagues and provides valuable
                                                techniques for any project involving more than one participant. Topics that will be
                                                explored include: The how and why of creating a shared Google drive for your team,
                                                sharing documents for collaboration, using comments in Google Docs or Sheets as task
                                                lists, the valuable “suggestion mode” for collaborating on a Doc, plus a few extras.
                                                If you are still sending Word documents back and forth for corrections via email,
                                                you need this workshop. Presenter: Phil Polsinelli.
January 6 - Student Collaboration using Google Drive, Docs, and Slides - Think whole-class brainstorming sessions with shared Google Docs or shared notes
                                                where students can add ideas and resources when they work together in groups. Host
                                                collaborative projects where each student can be responsible for a portion of the
                                                work. Peer review is possible with shared docs; peers can edit the document or suggest
                                                changes. Group slideshows allow students to learn from each other as they add pictures,
                                                audio, and even video to create presentations that pull in information from a wide
                                                variety of sources and perspectives. Presenter: Michelle Wendt
January 6 - Google Classroom as a Collaborative Tool - While Google Classroom is a valuable tool for administering classes. It can also
                                                be used as an asynchronous collaborative tool for any situation. Learn to use this
                                                tool as a sharing environment for you, your colleagues or anybody you are working
                                                with on a project.  This can become your one stop virtual location for all documents,
                                                deadlines and general organization among small or large groups of participants. It
                                                is a great way to keep everything in one place. Presenter: Phil Polsinelli
January 7 - Google Classroom - Intermediate/Advanced Techniques - For this webinar, we will explore the lesser utilized features of Google Classroom.
                                                Learn how to create, share and reuse rubrics for your assignments. Set up your grading
                                                scale with pre-set weights for assignments, tests and projects. And, learn how to
                                                utilize some Chrome extensions to simplify ways to share content with your students.
                                                Presenter: Phil Polsinelli
January 10 - Assessment Rhyme and Reason: Assignment Alignment - Strong, measurable course-level student learning outcomes are the foundation of good
                                                course assessment. But how can we ensure that course assignments guide students toward
                                                achieving those outcomes? This hands-on workshop will assist faculty in aligning assignments
                                                to outcomes, helping to connect the dots for students and faculty alike. Please come
                                                prepared with: A syllabus from one of your courses (make sure that course-level student
                                                learning outcomes are included); A list of all assignments planned for the course
                                                (if not already listed in the syllabus)- this list can include tests, essays, quizzes,
                                                lab reports, homework assignments, presentations, etc... Presenter: Alaina Walton
January 11 - Jamboard for Collaboration - Jamboard is a free and easily accessible digital whiteboard. It can be shared with
                                                colleagues or students or simply be used as a convenient visual tool while presenting
                                                for a classroom or meeting. All notations can be saved and shared later if necessary.
                                                This is an invaluable brainstorming tool for any group project whether it be for students
                                                or colleagues. Plus, it’s super easy to use. Presenter: Phil Polsinelli
January 11 - Try Critical Thinking Today! - Are you class discussions boring? Are your student's comments vague, repetitive,
                                                or inacurate? Are you unsure how to challenge students without killing the conversation?
                                                Intellectual standards can be particularly effective and helpful. Incorporated into
                                                the language of class discussion, these standards allow the instructor to distance
                                                themselves from direct criticism and keep the conversation rolling - "I’m not saying
                                                you’re wrong, I’m just wondering if your comment meets our standard for relevance”.
                                                This can be particularly effective when students are involved in the process - “Can
                                                we investigate that last statement in terms of the standards? Was it accurate? Was
                                                it clear?” In this session, the instructor will discuss intellectual standards as
                                                a possible solution to encourage critical thinking. Presenter: Jed Morfit
January 12 - FAWN Writing Boot Camp - Boot camps allow participants to write in a distraction-free, structured environment.
                                                You should bring your writing project and writing supplies (laptop, paper, notes,
                                                etc.). You can join us virtually using Zoom. We will email the Zoom link to all registered
                                                participants. The FAWN Blackboard course page also has the Zoom link. Please show
                                                up and join us for any and all days, for all of the time or part of the time. Presenters:
                                                Dr. Aleksondra Hultquist and Dr. Melissa Zwick
January 13 - Setting Up Blackboard to Empower Students -Blackboard can be one tool to help students monitor and improve their learning. In
                                                   this session we will go over setting a weighted average, Turnitin as a tool for students,
                                                   and other features of BB that help students take control of their own progress. Presenter: Rachel Kirzner
January 13 - Google Tools and Add-ons You're not Using but Should Be - This session explores some of the more useful tools that are available from the Google
                                                Suite that are not commonly used. These tools range from organizational/collaborative
                                                tools like Google Keep to browser extensions and add-ons that augment the capabilities
                                                of Google applications and the Chrome Browser. There is something for everyone here.
                                                Presenter: Phil Polsinelli
Professional Development Sessions
September 7 - Assessment 101: A Guide to Assessment at Stockton University - Assessment:
                                                            Mapping your curriculum  - This 5-part series builds on the assessment modules that can be found on the CTLD
                                                         website. Please watch the modules ahead of time, complete any of the optional activities
                                                         that sound interesting to you, and come to the live session ready to discuss this
                                                         week’s topic. Presenter: Alaina Walton
September 14 - Google Drive for Stockton Faculty & Staff - Join us to learn how to get the most out of this robust cloud storage by mastering
                                                         the following digital lifesaving techniques: Creating, accessing and organizing files,
                                                         uploading and working with Office files and other non-Google files, and sharing files
                                                         and folders with colleagues. Presenter: Michelle Wendt
September 14 - Assessment 101: A Guide to Assessment at Stockton University - Assessment:
                                                            Choosing the right assessment for your course -  This 5-part series builds on the assessment modules that can be found on the CTLD
                                                         website. Please watch the modules ahead of time, complete any of the optional activities
                                                         that sound interesting to you, and come to the live session ready to discuss the week’s
                                                         topic. Presenter: Alaina Walton 
September 14 - Google Classroom Next Level Stockton Faculty & Staff -  This webinar focuses on the robust grading possibilities in Google Classroom.
                                                         We will cover how to create rubrics, enabling plagiarism checking, self-grading quizzes
                                                         and utilizing pre-saved comments to speed up grading. Presenter: Phil Polsinelli
September 17 - The Power of Google Slides for Stockton Faculty & Staff - Creating and sharing a Google slide presentation is easy, but are you using all
                                                         of the tools that really make it great? This webinar will cover some of the more robust
                                                         and lesser known elements of Google Slides. Some of these include : Adding Sound to
                                                         slides, using Shapes, Controlling videos, including diagrams and other tips-and-tricks
                                                         to enhance visual communications. Presenter: Phil Polsinelli
September 20 - Google Jamboard - Your Online Collaborative Whiteboard - Jamboard is a digital whiteboard that is included as part of G Suite. It offers
                                                         the ability to enable a collaborative experience for you and your students. This simple
                                                         but powerful tool will allow you to include images, digital stickies, text boxes,
                                                         shapes or simply just write on it as you would in a traditional classroom. Get up
                                                         and running with Jamboard to see how this can be invaluable for breaking the monotony
                                                         of a Zoom presentation by inviting students to brainstorm or give feedback in real-time.
                                                         Plus, all of your presentations can be saved and shared for students to review. Presenter:
                                                         Phil Polsinelli
September 21 - Assessment 101: A Guide to Assessment at Stockton University - Assessment:
                                                            Reporting for annual and periodic reviews - This 5-part series builds on the assessment modules that can be found on the CTLD
                                                         website. Please watch the modules ahead of time, complete any of the optional activities
                                                         that sound interesting to you, and come to the live session ready to discuss this
                                                         week’s topic. Presenter: Alaina Walton 
September 23 - Screen Recording Stockton Faculty & Staff - This webinar will introduce you to some of the free and easy to use applications
                                                         for screen recording. We will explore the most dependable options available and discuss
                                                         the differences and similarities of the. We will put a special emphasis on Loom which
                                                         has proven to be quite useful for many of our colleagues. Presenter: Phil Polsinelli
September 28 - Assessment 101: A Guide to Assessment at Stockton University - Assessment:
                                                            Implementing continuous improvement - This 5-part series builds on the assessment modules that can be found on the CTLD
                                                         website. Please watch the modules ahead of time, complete any of the optional activities
                                                         that sound interesting to you, and come to the live session ready to discuss this
                                                         week’s topic. Presenter: Alaina Walton 
FAWN and R&PD: Sabbatical Application
Dates & times:
Monday, October 4 from 10:00 am to 12:00pmMonday, October 4 from 2:00 pm to 4:00 pmTuesday, October 5 from 9:00 am to 1:00 pmWednesday, October 6 from 10:00 am to 12:00 pmThursday, October 7 from 10:00 am to 12:00 pmFriday, October 8 - 9:00 am to 11:00 amFAWN is partnering with the R&PD Committee to support faculty working on their sabbatical
                                                            application (due 10/14/21). Members of the R&PD committee will be available October
                                                            4 - 7  to answer questions and provide feedback during Show Up & Write sessions.
October 8 - Happy Hour- Sharpen your cognitive skills and memory with trivia, boost your mood with some healthy
                                                         competition, then, reduce stress and relax tensions with a laughing meditation. Presenter:
                                                         Stockton University with New Jersey Hope and Healing
October 13 -  Supporting Student Success through Faculty Development: The OneHE Approach - Higher education’s pivot to emergency remote teaching during the spring of 2020
                                                         further underscored the long-recognized need for scalable and sustainable faculty
                                                         development that reaches all faculty on a campus, not just a few.  AAC&U has now partnered
                                                         with OneHE to provide affordable faculty development tools that can complement an
                                                         institution’s existing efforts to offer teaching excellence programming, resources,
                                                         and community at scale.  This webinar will explore the OneHE microlearning approach,
                                                         which leverages James Lang’s notion of “small teaching.”  The content development
                                                         model along with the scope of offerings will be shared, and participants will hear
                                                         how campuses are now leveraging OneHE to improve faculty practice in service to student
                                                         success. 
October 14 - Let’s Talk About Your Research: Exploring New Ideas And Finishing Those
                                                            Old Projects - The CTLD Research Fellow invites you to come an brainstorm and ask questions about
                                                         research.  Let’s talk about new ideas, works in progress, and how to finally finish
                                                         a project that has been dragging on forever. Presenter: Christine Tartaro
October 20 - Assessment is a Team Effort! - Have a question about what exactly goes on a curriculum map? Trying to figure out
                                                         the best way to turn assessment data into action? Wondering how the annual report
                                                         can guide a long-term assessment plan? Good news! There are new assessment teams on
                                                         campus that can help answer these questions and more. Join us to learn more about
                                                         these teams and discover how you can be a part of building a strong and effective
                                                         culture of assessment at Stockton. Presenter: Alaina Walton 
October 22 - Blackboard Ultra & Canvas Demo - The Information Technology and Media Services (ITMS) Subcommittee of the Faculty
                                                         Senate invites all faculty to a virtual product demonstration session of Blackboard
                                                         Ultra and Canvas.  Representatives from Blackboard and Canvas will demonstrate frequently
                                                         used features. Faculty members will have an opportunity to review Blackboard Ultra
                                                         and Canvas and provide feedback to the ITMS subcommittee via a survey. The feedback
                                                         will inform future discussions about the continued use of Blackboard or consideration
                                                         of another learning management system like Canvas.  The product demonstration sessions
                                                         will be recorded.  The recordings will be posted on the CTLD website Events page for
                                                         viewing by faculty unable to attend the sessions.
October 29 -  What To Do With My Dissertation? Exploring Possibilities - Congratulations on finishing your dissertation or other big project. Now what? Are
                                                         you having trouble determining what to do next? Let’s talk about it and come up with
                                                         a plan. Presenter: Christine Tartaro
November 5 - First Year File Construction & Faculty Plan - This workshop designed for first year faculty will focus on file construction and
                                                         creating a faculty plan. Facilitated by: Dennis Fotia, Assistant Director of the Center
                                                         for Teaching & Learning Design and Dr. Kerri Sowers, Faculty Review Committee (FRC)
                                                         Chair & Associate Professor of Health Science
November 5 - Second Year File Construction & Faculty Plan - This workshop designed for second year faculty will focus on file construction
                                                         and making any necessary modifications to your faculty plan. Facilitated by: Dennis
                                                         Fotia, Assistant Director of the Center for Teaching & Learning Design and Dr. Kerri
                                                         Sowers, Faculty Review Committee (FRC) Chair & Associate Professor of Health Science
November 10 - Let’s Talk About Your Research: Exploring New Ideas And Finishing Those
                                                            Old Projects - The CTLD Research Fellow invites you to come, brainstorm and ask questions about
                                                         research.  Let’s talk about new ideas, works in progress, and how to finally finish
                                                         a project that has been dragging on forever. Presenter: Christine Tartaro
November 18 - Third Year File Construction - This workshop designed for third year faculty will focus on the file construction
                                                         process. Facilitated by: Dennis Fotia, Assistant Director of the Center for Teaching
                                                         & Learning Design and Dr. Kerri Sowers, Faculty Review Committee (FRC) Chair & Associate
                                                         Professor of Health Science
November 18 - Fourth Year File Construction - This workshop designed for fourth year faculty will focus on the file construction
                                                         process. Facilitated by: Dennis Fotia, Assistant Director of the Center for Teaching
                                                         & Learning Design and Dr. Kerri Sowers, Faculty Review Committee (FRC) Chair & Associate
                                                         Professor of Health Science
November 18 - I’ve been asked to lead my program’s assessment efforts- now what!?
                                                            - If you have asked this question (or are thinking about asking this question in the
                                                         near future) then this session is for you! Support and training are available to help
                                                         you plan your program’s assessment strategies, review assessment data, and effectively
                                                         report that data. This session offers the opportunity to connect with other “assessment
                                                         people” and learn how you can help guide your program’s assessment efforts. Presenter:
                                                         Alaina Walton 
November 18 - Fifth Year File Construction - This workshop designed for fifth year faculty will focus on the tenure file construction
                                                         process. Facilitated by: Dennis Fotia, Assistant Director of the Center for Teaching
                                                         & Learning Design and Dr. Kerri Sowers, Faculty Review Committee (FRC) Chair & Associate
                                                         Professor of Health Science
November 19 - Stockton University Leadership Series for New Program Chairs - Nurturing
                                                            & Mentoring Yourself & Others - The Leadership Series for New Program Chairs is a professional development opportunity
                                                         for faculty who are new to the academic leadership position of Program Chair. Program
                                                         Chairs (new and experienced) are provided with access to materials and information
                                                         about the sessions covering topics of importance in meeting leadership responsibilities.
In preparation for this session, review the material found in the Stockton University
                                                         Leadership Series for New Program Chairs Blackboard course under Nurturing & Mentoring
                                                         Yourself & Others.  Participation requires registration to access Blackboard materials.
                                                          If you are not registered, contact the CTLD at 609.626.3828 or ctld@stockton.edu.
Presenter: Liz Shobe 
November 19 & 20 - VIRTUAL NATIONAL SYMPOSIUM 2021 - REDESIGNING HIGHER EDUCATION
                                                            AFTER COVID-19 - The COVID-19 pandemic has profoundly disrupted higher education. The principal mission
                                                         of colleges and universities–teaching and learning–was thrown into disarray by the
                                                         sudden closure of campuses and the dislocation of faculty members and students. Classes
                                                         were abruptly shifted online, which required both professors and students to quickly
                                                         adjust to a new learning environment. Communication switched from in-person conversations
                                                         to online Zoom meetings, which sustained connection but reinforced our sense of personal
                                                         separation. The COVID-19 pandemic aimed a revealing spotlight on issues in higher
                                                         education that were always present but were now brought more fully into view, such
                                                         as concerns about student wellness and faculty work-life balance.
We have now reached the one-year mark of this educational transformation. There are
                                                         hopeful signs of declining COVID cases nationwide and an increase in the number of
                                                         COVID vaccinations. There is also cautious optimism about the ability to return to
                                                         our campuses in the fall. But what will higher education look like after COVID-19?
                                                         What lessons have we learned from our pandemic experience that can stimulate us to
                                                         reshape higher education in a way that is better at fostering student learning and
                                                         supporting faculty advancement? This FRN Symposium provides an opportunity to reflect
                                                         on our COVID-19 experiences and chart a new course for redesigning higher education
                                                         for our post-pandemic future.
Sponsored by: the Faculty Resource Network (FRN) at New York University
December 1 -  Sneak Preview of Blackboard Learn with the Ultra View - Blackboard's newly available Ultra View offers a modern and simple interface. This
                                                         sneak preview session will help instructors choose between retaining an Original Learn
                                                         course view or using the new Ultra view for Fall courses. In this session, participants
                                                         will review the basic elements of Blackboard's Ultra View. Presenter: Roberto Castillo
December 2 - Retaining and Advancing Faculty from Historically Marginalized Groups:
                                                            A Discussion for Faculty Affairs and Academic Leaders - Join us for a free webcast to uncover strategies that go beyond hiring and extend
                                                         to retaining and advancing faculty from historically marginalized groups. Presented
                                                         by: Dawn Michelle Baunach, Ph.D., Associate Vice Provost for Graduate Education and
                                                         Faculty Development, Georgia Institute of Technology and Nicolle Parsons-Pollard,
                                                         Ph.D. , Associate Provost for Faculty Affairs, Georgia State University
December 8 - Best Practices in Syllabus Design - In this session, we'll go over best practices when creating or revising your course
                                                         syllabus. Read the article on "How to Create a Syllabus" and come prepare to discuss
                                                         how to draft a student-centered syllabus that can help students succeed in your course. Presenter:
                                                         Roberto Castillo
December 20 - FAWN Writing Boot Camp - Boot camps allow participants to write in a distraction-free, structured environment.
                                                         You should bring your writing project and writing supplies (laptop, paper, notes,
                                                         etc.). We do not provide food, so bring drinks, snacks and lunch. You can join us
                                                         virtually using Zoom. We will email the Zoom link to all registered participants.
                                                         The FAWN Blackboard course page also has the Zoom link. Presenters: Aleksondra Hultquist
                                                         and Melissa Zwick
Professional Development Sessions
June 16 - Customizing the CTLD Sample Syllabi - Did you know that each semester the Center for Teaching and Learning Design provides
                                                         sample syllabi specifically designed for Stockton faculty and teaching staff?  In
                                                         this session, we will review the syllabi components and discuss customizing syllabi
                                                         to fit your course needs.  The syllabi available at https://stockton.edu/ctld/course-resources.html
                                                         are designed for classroom, hybrid and online courses. Presenter: Roberto Castillo
June 17, July 8, July 27 & Sept 2 - Sneak Preview of Blackboard Learn with the Ultra View - Blackboard's newly available Ultra View offers a modern and simple interface. This
                                                         sneak preview session will help instructors choose between retaining an Original Learn
                                                         course view or using the new Ultra view for Fall courses. In this session, participants
                                                         will review the basic elements of Blackboard's Ultra View. Presenter: Roberto Castillo
June 22 - Providing Accessible Course Materials with Blackboard Ally - Learn to use the Blackboard Ally tool available in all Stockton Blackboard courses
                                                         to generate alternative document formats critical for individuals with disabilities
                                                         using screen readers or other assistive technology.  Alternate formats allow course
                                                         materials to meet a variety of student learning preferences and needs. Presenter:
                                                         Kathy Klein
June 23 - Organizing Course Content in Blackboard for Hybrid and Online Courses - In this session participants will review effective strategies to organize and provide
                                                         course content and resources for students to access in hybrid and online courses. Presenter:
                                                         Dennis Fotía
June 30 - Organizing Course Content in Blackboard for Face-to-Face Courses - In this session participants will review effective strategies to organize and provide
                                                            course content and resources for students to access in face-to-face courses. Presenter: Dennis Fotía
July 12 - Stockton University Leadership Series for New Program Chairs (Monthly Topics) - The Leadership Series for New Program Chairs is a professional
                                                         development opportunity for faculty who are new to the academic leadership position
                                                         of Program Chair. Program Chairs (new and experienced) are provided with access to
                                                         materials and information about the sessions covering topics of importance in meeting
                                                         leadership responsibilities. For additional information, contact the CTLD at 609.626.3828
                                                         or ctld@stockton.edu. Presenters: SFT Faculty Leadership Mentors: Heather McGovern & Amy Hadley  
July 13 through Thursday, July 15 - SIPET Summer Institute - Summer Institute for Peer Evaluation of Teaching (SIPET) is a professional development
                                                         opportunity for tenured faculty who applied and were accepted as SIPET participants.
                                                         For more information, visit the 2021 Summer Institutes, then scroll down to Summer
                                                         Institute for Peer Evaluation of Teaching (SIPET). Presenters:  Kathy Klein, Liz Shobe
                                                         & Meg White
July 22 - The Power of Multimodal Feedback - Research tells us that providing specific, frequent, and ongoing feedback significantly
                                                         improves student motivation and achievement. However, simply assigning a grade or
                                                         circling criteria on a rubric is not the most effective way to stimulate the learning
                                                         process. With so many tools available, instructors now have the opportunity to leverage
                                                         technology to provide feedback in more meaningful ways. This training will discuss
                                                         what multimodal feedback looks like, how to establish multimodal feedback in the classroom,
                                                         and why multimodal feedback is beneficial for both students and instructors. Presenter:
                                                         Alaina Walton
August 12 - Google Classroom Kickstart Stockton Faculty & Staff - This webinar provides the basics to get started with Google Classroom. Classroom
                                                         is a Learning Module System that seamlessly integrates all Google apps and provides
                                                         a simple but effective interface for both you and your students. It can be used in
                                                         addition to Blackboard. Presenter: Phil Polsinelli
August 26 - Google Drive for Stockton Faculty & Staff - Join us to learn how to get the most out of this robust cloud storage by mastering
                                                         the following digital lifesaving techniques: Creating, accessing and organizing files,
                                                         uploading and working with Office files and other non-Google files, and sharing files
                                                         and folders with colleagues. Presenter: Michelle Wendt
August 27 - Google Docs for Collaboration for Stockton Faculty & Staff - Google Docs is more than word processing, learn how to use Google Docs for your
                                                         own use as well as how to use them collaboratively with students and colleagues. Work
                                                         with different versions and copies of your document. Use the smart editing and splashy
                                                         style tools to help you easily format text and paragraphs and bring your documents
                                                         to life. Presenter: Michelle Wendt
August 30 - Accessibility for Today’s Classroom - Consider all the abilities of your students when planning how to deliver face-to-face
                                                         or blended curriculum and instruction with inclusion as the focus. We will be presenting
                                                         a series of tools that you can use to increase accessibility in your classroom. Learn
                                                         how to bring best practices to life and make your assignments friendly for all students. Presenter:
                                                         Michelle Wendt
August 31 - Assessment 101: A Guide to Assessment at Stockton University - Assessment:
                                                            Writing program-level student learning outcomes - This 5-part series builds on the assessment modules that can be found on the CTLD
                                                         website. Please watch the modules ahead of time, complete any of the optional activities
                                                         that sound interesting to you, and come to the live session ready to discuss this
                                                         week’s topic. Presenter: Alaina Walton 
Professional Development Sessions
January 15 - Overview of Program Review Committee (PRC) Responsibilities - This session is designed for faculty who are members of a Program Review Committee.
                                                          The session will review faculty evaluation procedures and the responsibilities of
                                                         PRC members. Presenters: Angie Christy and Kathy Klein. Guest Presenters: Heather
                                                         McGovern (FRC) and Adam Miyashiro (SFT)
January 15 & 22 - What's New in Blackboard? - In this session, we will review changes to the latest version of Blackboard. Presenter:
                                                         Roberto Castillo & Dennis Fotia
January 20 - New Adjunct Faculty Information Session
January 21 - Customizing the CTLD Sample Syllabi - Did you know that each semester the Center for Teaching and Learning Design provides
                                                         sample syllabi specifically designed for Stockton faculty and teaching staff?  In
                                                         this session, we will review the syllabi components and discuss customizing syllabi
                                                         to fit your course needs.  The syllabi available at https://stockton.edu/ctld/course-resources.html
                                                         are specifically designed for online course instruction. Presenter: Roberto Castillo
January 22 - Overview of Program Review Committee (PRC) Responsibilities - This session is designed for faculty who are members of a Program Review Committee.
                                                          The session will review faculty evaluation procedures and the responsibilities of
                                                         PRC members. Presenters: Angie Christy and Kathy Klein. Guest Presenter: Kerri Sowers
                                                         (SFT & FRC)
January 27 - Google Classroom Kickstart Stockton Faculty & Staff - This webinar provides the basics to get started with Google Classroom. Classroom is
                                                            a Learning Module System that seamlessly integrates all Google apps and provides a
                                                            simple but effective interface for both you and your students. It can be used in addition
                                                            to Blackboard. Presenter: Phil Polsinelli
January 28 - Tips for an Engaging Videoconference Session - In this session, we will discuss ideas to conduct live video sessions that are interesting
                                                            and engaging learning experiences.  Tips and ideas discussed will work on any video
                                                            conference platform including Zoom, Blackboard Collaborate Ultra, or Google Meet. Presenter: Dr. Shelly Meyers
January 29 - File Construction Q&A: Final Preparation - Do you need help with last minute preparations for constructing your evaluation file?
                                                            In this session, we will answer questions and provide tips on submitting a successful
                                                            review file. Presenter: Anjanette Christy. Guest Presenter: Cindy King (FRC)
February 1 -Google Drive for Stockton Faculty & Staff - Join us to learn how to get the most out of this robust cloud storage by mastering
                                                         the following digital lifesaving techniques: Creating, accessing and organizing files,
                                                         uploading and working with Office files and other non-Google files, and sharing files
                                                         and folders with colleagues. Presenter: Michelle Wendt
February 1 - Ask the CTLD Team Your Questions - In this session, we will answer your questions about delivering learning experiences
                                                         in an online or hybrid format. Presenters: Roberto Castillo and Dennis Fotía
February 2 - Google Docs for Collaboration for Stockton Faculty & Staff - Google Docs is more than word processing, learn how to use Google Docs for your
                                                         own use as well as how to use them collaboratively with students and colleagues. Work
                                                         with different versions and copies of your document. Use the smart editing and splashy
                                                         style tools to help you easily format text and paragraphs and bring your documents
                                                         to life. Presenter: Michelle Wendt
February 3 - Google Classroom Next Level Stockton Faculty & Staff - This webinar focuses on the robust grading possibilities in Google Classroom. We
                                                         will cover how to create rubrics, enabling plagiarism checking, self-grading quizzes
                                                         and utilizing pre-saved comments to speed up grading. Presenter: Phil Polsinelli
February 5 - FAWN Writing Workshop with Guest Writing Coach Dr. Christine Tulley
February 5 - Intro to Google Slides Stockton Faculty & Staff -  Google Slides is Google’s version of PowerPoint. Its strengths are its  ease of
                                                         ues and immediate ability to share over the web and integrate with Google Classroom.
                                                         This will make your presentations easily accessible for students for both viewing
                                                         and collaborative use. This webinar will get you up and running with your Google Slides
                                                         presentations. Presenter: Phil Polsinelli
February 10 - Google Jamboard - Your Online Collaborative Whiteboard - Jamboard is a digital whiteboard that is included as part of G Suite. It offers
                                                         the ability to enable a collaborative experience for you and your students. This simple
                                                         but powerful tool will allow you to include images, digital stickies, text boxes,
                                                         shapes or simply just write on it as you would in a traditional classroom. Get up
                                                         and running with Jamboard to see how this can be invaluable for breaking the monotony
                                                         of a Zoom presentation by inviting students to brainstorm or give feedback in real-time.
                                                         Plus, all of your presentations can be saved and shared for students to review. Presenter:
                                                         Phil Polsinelli
February 17 (morning and afternoon sessions offered) - Using Adaptive Release in Blackboard
                                                            to Facilitate Self-Directed Learning - This session will demonstrate ways of using Adaptive Release in Blackboard to grant
                                                         student access to course content following criteria you choose. Presenter: Dennis
                                                         Fotía
February 22 - Screen Recording Stockton Faculty & Staff - This webinar will introduce you to some of the free and easy to use applications
                                                         for screen recording. We will explore the most dependable options available and discuss
                                                         the differences and similarities of the applications. We will put a special emphasis
                                                         on Loom which has proven to be quite useful for many of our colleagues. Presenter:
                                                         Phil Polsinelli
February 23 - New Faculty Workshop -  Continue conversations from Fall 2020 program. Attendance limited to new faculty
                                                         cohort. Presenter: Kathy Klein, Dennis Fotia and Angie Christy
February 26 - Conducting Peer Observations for Online Teaching - Peer observations are a way to support colleagues in formative reflection on their
                                                         teaching through collegial discussion. How do we observe teaching when it is online?
                                                         This workshop is an opportunity to learn and discuss what to look for in online teaching
                                                         and how to best provide feedback to colleagues. Presenter: Doug Harvey
March 1, 8 & 15 - Mondays in March: Let's Talk Writing Assignments - Pop into Zoom and chat with me about the writing assignments in your W1 or W2 class.
                                                          Feel free to email me materials or questions in advance or just share them with me
                                                         when we meet. I am happy to help you revise existing assignments, design new assignments,
                                                         and assess existing methods for feedback. Meet with Lisa Corrado Youngblood
March 2 - Writing Assignment Design - This session will focus on how to design effective writing assignments.  We will
                                                         explore how to link assignments to course objectives and goals, what to include in
                                                         the writing assignment folder/directions, and how to revise existing assignments to
                                                         make them more effective. Presenter: Lisa Corrado Youngblood
March 3 - A Quick Guide to Padlet: A Creative Virtual Notepad for Student Engagement
                                                            - The presentation will introduce participants to Padlet, review how faculty uses
                                                         Padlet as an instructional/interactive tool, and demonstrate how to create a Padlet
                                                         that aligns with specific course outcomes. Presenter: Shelly Meyers
March 12 - Decompress & Disconnect -  a discussion of strategies and techniques to promote healthy boundaries and manage
                                                            the stressors from working at home. Presenter: NJ Hope and Healing
March 16 - New Faculty Workshop - Continue conversations from Fall 2020 program. Attendance limited to new faculty
                                                         cohort. Presenter: Kathy Klein
March 17 - Getting Ready for Spring Student Evaluations - This session will review the process of making choices for student evaluations in
                                                            the student ratings of teaching and campus labs systems. The session will also review the IDEA and Small Class (SCI) student evaluation instruments. Presenter: Dennis Fotía
March 15, 19, 22, 26, 29 & April 2 - Join the Discussion! Featuring The Gifts of Imperfection - Written by Brené Brown, Ph.D., L.M.S.W. Presenter: NJ Hope and Healing
March 20 - FAWN Writing Boot Camp - this writing boot camp allows participants to write in a distraction-free, structured
                                                         environment. You should bring your writing project and writing supplies (laptop, paper,
                                                         notes, etc.). You can join us virtually using Zoom. We will email the Zoom link to
                                                         all registered participants. The FAWN Blackboard course page also has the Zoom link. Presenters:
                                                         Melissa Zwick & Aleksondra Hultquist
March 26 - Clearing the Decks - FAWN - Clean out the mental and physical clutter that is preventing you from making and
                                                         attaining your writing goals. Based on one of the steps in Leo Babauta’s Zen to Done,
                                                         this workshop will help you define what is important, help you manage your inboxes,
                                                         and get your workload to a manageable place and pace so you have space for your research
                                                         and writing. This is an active workshop—the goal is for you to have a clear desk and
                                                         inbox by the end of the workshop. Presenter: Dr Aleksondra Hultquist
April 8 - Conducting Peer Observations for Online Teaching - Peer observations are a way to support colleagues in formative reflection on their
                                                         teaching through collegial discussion. How do we observe teaching when it is online?
                                                         This workshop is an opportunity to learn and discuss what to look for in online teaching
                                                         and how to best provide feedback to colleagues. Presenter: Doug Harvey
April 12 - 16 - Week of Teaching - Join us virtually for a variety of available activities: Virtually attend classes
                                                         - Attend course sessions virtually and participate in a 20-minute discussion with
                                                         the faculty member after the class session. View recorded class sessions - Available
                                                         throughout the week, view course sessions when convenient. Attend poster presentations
                                                         - Faculty will share posters on teaching, assessment, and other relevant topics. Join
                                                         roundtable discussions - Enjoy a great opportunity to discuss relevant topics. Participate
                                                         in buzz sessions - Offers an opportunity to learn and discuss relevant topics.
April 17 - FAWN Writing Boot Camp - this writing boot camp allows participants to write in a distraction-free, structured
                                                         environment. You should bring your writing project and writing supplies (laptop, paper,
                                                         notes, etc.). You can join us virtually using Zoom. We will email the Zoom link to
                                                         all registered participants. The FAWN Blackboard course page also has the Zoom link. Presenters:
                                                         Melissa Zwick & Aleksondra Hultquist
April 19 - Giving Productive Feedback on Student Writing - This session will examine what makes feedback productive and suggest ways to revise
                                                         existing methods of giving feedback to make this part of the writing process more
                                                         efficient for both the student and instructor. Presenter: Lisa Corrado Youngblood
April 20 - New Faculty Workshop -  Continue conversations from Fall 2020 program. Attendance limited to new faculty
                                                         cohort. Presenter: Kathy Klein, Roberto Castillo and Angie Christy
April 20 - Turning your Research into Reality: Preparing to Publish - This session will provide helpful tips to turning your study into a publication.
                                                         The objective of this session will be to provide basic knowledge, along helpful hints,
                                                         and strategies for faculty to bring their research to fruition - writing up, submitting,
                                                         and publishing their quantitative research study. In addition, there will be time
                                                         for individuals to ask questions with regards to the above objectives and / or their
                                                         specific research projects. Presenter: Tara L. Crowell
April 22 - Practical Strategies for Addressing Microaggressions and Macroaggressions - We will discuss what we can do at the individual level to address individual and
                                                         systemic racism and bias based on Dr. Derald Sue’s book “The Microinterventions Tookit”.
                                                         We will focus on how to use these strategies in our work with students and colleagues. Presenter:
                                                         Zornitsa Kalibatseva
April 23 - Pre-tenure Writing and Research Goals - FAWN - Publishing for tenure is fraught with many factors out of your control.  This workshop
                                                         will help you to harness what is in your control and help you plan a productive, realistic
                                                         path to a successful “scholarship” portion of your CV and tenure file. Presenter:
                                                         Dr Aleksondra Hultquist
April 28 & May 4 - Using the Blackboard Grade Center - Are you finishing up grades for this semester and looking for assistance with the
                                                         Blackboard Grade Center? In this session, you will learn how to make grades available
                                                         on demand to students using the Blackboard Grade Center. Special attention will be
                                                         given on the Weighted Total Column. Presenter: Dennis Fotía 
May 21 - Transitioning to Work and Dealing with Uncertainties -Transitioning to Work and Dealing with Other Uncertainties is designed to discuss
                                                            strategies for faculty to prepare for a successful return to campus for face-to-face
                                                            course delivery.  Come share your thoughts about transitioning from virtual teaching
                                                            and learn helpful tips to prepare for the fall semester! Presenter: NJ Hope and Healing
Professional Development Sessions
September 30 - Blackboard for Beginners - This session will introduce participants to Stockton’s learning management system,
                                                         Blackboard. We will review Blackboard layout and structure for adding and creating
                                                         course content. Presenter: Dennis Fotía
October 7 - Organizing Course Content for Remote or Online Delivery in Blackboard - In this session participants will review effective strategies to organize and provide
                                                         course content and resources for students to access remotely in online, hybrid or
                                                         face-to-face courses. Presenter: Dennis Fotía
October 7 - Zoom Basics - Use Zoom to conduct live, interactive virtual class sessions, precept students,
                                                         include guest speakers in your course, or conduct office hours. The instructor will
                                                         show you how to enable Zoom in Blackboard and review the basics of effectively using
                                                         Zoom. Presenter: Roberto Castillo
October 13 - What Course Delivery Method Is Best for My Course? - This session will review course design criteria, teaching goals, student issues
                                                         and pandemic considerations to make an informed decision about the most effective
                                                         course delivery modality (online, face-to-face, hybrid) for your course.  We will
                                                         review ways to promote student engagement when delivering your course in any modality
                                                         during the pandemic. We’ll consider what we’ve learned in Spring 2020 and Fall 2020
                                                         to make best decisions for Spring 2021. Presenter: Dr. Kathy Klein
October 13 - Zoom: Active Learning - If you’ve mastered the basic Zoom functions, join us for this session where we’ll
                                                         explore active student learning features including Breakout Rooms, file share in Chat,
                                                         Whiteboard, Annotate, virtual backgrounds and Polling. Presenter: Roberto Castillo
October 14 - Turnitin - Turnitin is a plagiarism detection tool that may be used to improve student writing.
                                                         Turnitin is also a robust grading tool that may save faculty time grading student
                                                         work. Participants will learn how to create a Turnitin Assignment, access student
                                                         papers, review for similarity and grade papers using Turnitin’s GradeMark. Presenter:
                                                         Dennis Fotía
October 16 - Creating Tests in Blackboard -  Creating tests on Blackboard allows your students to complete exams and quizzes
                                                         anytime or anywhere and receive instant grading and feedback. In this session, we
                                                         will review how to create tests in Blackboard and use pedagogical best practices to
                                                         promote reliable and secure assessment. Presenter: Roberto Castillo
October 16 - The Use of Visual Images in Teaching through PowerPoint - This collaborative session will explore the use of visual images and visual literacy
                                                         as a tool for achieving the objectives of your course. We will apply our learning
                                                         considering the use of visual images in PowerPoint. A demonstration will be provided
                                                         within the context of teaching social issues. Presenter: Dr. Guia Calicdan-Apostle
October 16 - Sixth Year Reconsideration Review Consultations - Faculty preparing for the Fall Tenure Decision Review may request a consultation
                                                         to discuss questions about the process (policy or procedure). Appointment with: Dr.
                                                         Kathy Klein, Executive Director, CTLD & Associate Professor of Occupational Therapy 
October 19 - What Course Delivery Method Is Best for My Course? - This session will review course design criteria, teaching goals, student issues
                                                         and pandemic considerations to make an informed decision about the most effective
                                                         course delivery modality (online, face-to-face, hybrid) for your course.  We will
                                                         review ways to promote student engagement when delivering your course in any modality
                                                         during the pandemic. We’ll consider what we’ve learned in Spring 2020 and Fall 2020
                                                         to make best decisions for Spring 2021. Presenter: Dr. Kathy Klein
October 21 - Best Practices Using Zoom in Lectures - Review best practices for using Zoom to deliver, record, or edit previously recorded
                                                         lectures. We'll discuss best practices for a synchronous (live) Zoom lecture and review
                                                         helpful tips for recording and making minor edits to recorded lectures. Presenter:
                                                         Roberto Castillo
October 27 - Customizing the CLD Sample Syllabi - Did you know that each semester the Center for Teaching and Learning Design provides
                                                         sample syllabi specifically designed for Stockton faculty and teaching staff?  In
                                                         this session, we will review the syllabi components and discuss customizing syllabi
                                                         to fit your course needs.  The syllabi available at https://stockton.edu/ctld/course-resources.html are specifically designed for online course instruction. Presenter: Roberto Castillo
October 28 - Annotate: Blackboard Assignment Annotation tool - Blackboard has replaced the assignment annotation tool, Box, with a robust, multi-functional
                                                         editor, Annotate. This session will show participants how to use Annotate to provide
                                                         feedback and grading comments on Blackboard assignments. Presenter: Dennis Fotía
October 29 - Promote Engaged Learning with Infographics - Infographics blend graphic design with information as an effective visual learning
                                                         experience. This session will present the use of infographics to promote student engagement,
                                                         content analysis, and creative expression in a manner that allows meaningful assessment
                                                         of student learning and teaching effectiveness. Presenters: Dr. Guia Calicdan-Apostle
                                                         and Dr. Kathy Klein
November 4 - Video in Blackboard - Integrating video in your course may add dynamic and relevant content that meets
                                                         intended student learning outcomes. In this session, learn how to upload videos to
                                                         Blackboard or add links to video content from the library’s Films on Demand collection
                                                         or enable students to upload videos securely within Blackboard. Presenter: Dennis
                                                         Fotía
November 6 - Padlet: A Multimedia Tool for Promoting Significant Learning Experiences - Padlet is a multimedia tool designed to make discussions and learning highly interactive
                                                         and engaging for students. Creating a padlet Padlet is an easy and effective way to
                                                         connect with your students online and provide meaningful feedback. Presenter: Dr.
                                                         Guia Calicdan-Apostle
November 6 - First Year File Construction & Faculty Plan - This workshop designed for first year faculty will focus on file construction and
                                                         creating a faculty plan. Facilitated by: Dr. Heather McGovern, Faculty Review Committee
                                                         (FRC) Chair & Professor of Writing & First - Year Studies and Dr. Kathy Klein, Executive
                                                         Director, CTLD & Associate Professor of Occupational Therapy
November 6 - Second Year File Construction & Adapting Faculty Plans for COVID - This workshop designed for second year faculty will focus on file construction
                                                         and making any necessary modifications to your faculty plan. Facilitated by: Dr. Heather
                                                         McGovern, Faculty Review Committee (FRC) Chair & Professor of Writing & First - Year
                                                         Studies and Dr. Kathy Klein, Executive Director, CTLD & Associate Professor of Occupational
                                                         Therapy
November 11 -Using the Blackboard Grade Center - Are students in your course viewing their assignment and test grades whenever they
                                                         want? In this session, you will learn how to make grades available on demand to students
                                                         using the Blackboard Grade Center. Presenter: Dennis Fotía
November 11 - Tips for an Engaging Videoconference Session - In this session, we will discuss ideas to conduct live video sessions that are
                                                         interesting and engaging learning experiences.  Tips and ideas discussed will work
                                                         on any video conference platform including Zoom, Blackboard Collaborate Ultra, or
                                                         Google Meet. Presenter: Dr. Shelly Meyers
November 18 - Practical Strategies for Creating Accessible Course Materials - In this session, we will discuss the basics of creating or evaluating course resources
                                                         to be accessible and useful to all students. Presenter: Dr. Shelly Meyers
November 18 - Rubrics - This session will explore best practices in using and creating rubrics on Blackboard
                                                         to simplify the grading process and provide students with clear assignment expectations
                                                         and useful feedback. Presenter: Dr. Shelly Meyers
November 18 - Polling - This session will introduce polling tools that faculty/teaching staff may use to
                                                         create interactive, real-time assessment measures and keep students engaged with meaningful,
                                                         interactive learning activities.  Make your next class more engaging by learning about
                                                         polling technology. Presenter: Roberto Castillo
November 20 - Third Year File Construction - This workshop designed for third year faculty will focus on the file construction
                                                         process and development of resources. Facilitated by: Dr. Heather McGovern, Faculty
                                                         Review Committee (FRC) Chair & Professor of Writing & First - Year Studies and Dr.
                                                         Kathy Klein, Executive Director, CTLD & Associate Professor of Occupational Therapy
November 20 - Fourth Year File Construction - This workshop designed for fourth year faculty will focus on the file construction
                                                         process and development of resources. Facilitated by: Dr. Heather McGovern, Faculty
                                                         Review Committee (FRC) Chair & Professor of Writing & First - Year Studies and Dr.
                                                         Kathy Klein, Executive Director, CTLD & Associate Professor of Occupational Therapy
November 20 - Fifth Year File Construction - This workshop designed for fifth year faculty will focus on the tenure file construction
                                                         process and development of resources. Facilitated by: Dr. Heather McGovern, Faculty
                                                         Review Committee (FRC) Chair & Professor of Writing & First - Year Studies and Dr.
                                                         Kathy Klein, Executive Director, CTLD & Associate Professor of Occupational Therapy
November 23 - Teaching Writing Online - In this session, we will discuss the best ways to teach writing online, including
                                                         how to effectively communicate directions for writing assignments, scaffold assignments,
                                                         hold peer review sessions, give productive feedback, and adapt writing assignments for online
                                                         classes. Presenter: Lisa C Youngblood, Esq.
December 15 - How to Write a Learner-Focused Syllabus . . . That Your Students Will
                                                            Read! - This session will demonstrate how a few tweaks in design and language may help
                                                         students read and retain the essential information on your syllabus. Specifically,
                                                         we'll focus on using warm, learner-focused language and offering rationale for policies.
                                                          We'll discuss modifying the CTLD's template syllabus, which students report as visually
                                                         appealing and easy to navigate. This hands-on, practical workshop will help you get
                                                         a head start on preparing your spring courses. Presenter: Nancy Reddy, PhD, MFA, Assistant
                                                         Professor of Writing and First Year Studies, Coordinator, Writing Across the Curriculum
Professional Development Activities
June 11 - Tips for an Engaging Videoconference Session - In this session, we will discuss ideas to conduct live video sessions that are interesting
                                                         and engaging learning experiences.  Tips and ideas discussed will work on any video
                                                         conference platform including Zoom, Blackboard Collaborate Ultra, or Google Hangout. Presenter:
                                                         Shelly Meyers
June 17 - Practical Strategies for Creating Accessible Course Materials - In this session, we will discuss the basics of creating or evaluating course resources
                                                         to be accessible and useful to all students. Presenters: Shelly Meyers & Kathy Klein
June 24 & August 26 - Organizing Course Content for Remote or Online Delivery in Blackboard - In this session we will review organizing and posting course content materials
                                                         online for students to access remotely. Presenter: Dennis Fotía
June 30 & August 26 - Zoom: Beyond the Basics - Zoom videoconferencing is useful for live, interactive learning sessions. Additional
                                                         features in Zoom such as Breakout Rooms and Polling may increase student engagement
                                                         and collaboration. In this session, we will discuss these advanced features and best
                                                         practices when conducting online Zoom classes. Presenter: Roberto Castillo
July 28 & August 21 - Best Practices: Zoom Lectures - Review best practices for using Zoom to record, deliver or edit recorded lectures.
                                                         We'll discuss best practices for a synchronous Zoom lecture and review helpful tips
                                                         for recording and making minor edits to recorded lectures. Presenter: Roberto Castillo
July 29 - Zoom: Active Learning - Zoom is useful for live, interactive learning sessions. We'll discuss additional
                                                         options available on the Zoom interface such as Virtual Backgrounds, File Share in
                                                         Chat, Annotate and Record (including editing and managing recorded sessions in Zoom).
                                                         Additional features in Zoom such as Breakout Rooms and Polling may increase student
                                                         engagement and collaboration. Presenter: Roberto Castillo
August 7 & 20 - Zoom Basics - Use Zoom to conduct live, interactive virtual learning sessions. The instructor
                                                         will show you how to enable Zoom in Blackboard and manage your Zoom account. Also,
                                                         we'll go over the basics of the Zoom interface. Presenter: Roberto Castillo
August 12 - Annotate: The new Blackboard Assignment Annotation tool - Blackboard has replaced the Assignment Annotation tool, Box, with a robust, multi-functional
                                                         editor, Annotate. This session will show participants how it works and how to use
                                                         it in a Blackboard Assignment. Presenter: Dennis Fotia
August 20 & 21 - Blackboard: Setting up your Course - This session will show participants how to build a course in Blackboard. Adding
                                                         course content and copying existing courses will be reviewed. Presenter: Dennis Fotia
August 28 - Creating Tests in Blackboard - Blackboard’s test feature allows students to remotely take exams and quizzes anytime
                                                            or anywhere. In this session, we will review how to create tests in Blackboard and
                                                            use pedagogical best practices to promote reliable and secure assessment. Presenter:
                                                            Roberto Castillo
August 28 - Turnitin and Annotate - The presenter will show how to create a Turnitin Assignment, how to access submitted
                                                         student papers, review for similarity and grade them using Turnitin’s GradeMark and
                                                         show how to use Blackboard Annotate to annotate and grade student papers. Presenter:
                                                         Dennis Fotía
September 3 - Ask Your Questions to the CLD Team - In this session, we will answer your questions about delivering courses remotely
                                                         using online tools such as Blackboard and Zoom. Presenters: Roberto Castillo, Dennis
                                                         Fotía & Kathy Klein
September 4 - Recording Attendance and Grading Students In Blackboard - The Blackboard Attendance and Grade Center tools accurately maintain records of
                                                         student attendance and grades. In this session, we will examine how the attendance
                                                         tool works and integrates into the grade center. We will explore additional features
                                                         such as creating and managing columns in the Grade Center. Presenter: Dennis Fotía
Workshop Sessions Offered in Collaboration with SRI&ETTC
September 14 - Google Drive for Stockton Faculty & Staff - Join us to learn how to get the most out of this robust cloud storage by mastering
                                                         the following digital lifesaving techniques: Creating, accessing and organizing files,
                                                         uploading and working with Office files and other non-Google files, and sharing files
                                                         and folders with colleagues. Presenter: Michelle Wendt
September 15 - Google Docs for Collaboration for Stockton Faculty & Staff - Google Docs is more than word processing. Learn how to use Google Docs for your
                                                         own use as well as how to use them collaboratively with students and colleagues. Work
                                                         with different versions and copies of your document. Use the smart editing and splashy
                                                         style tools to help you easily format text and paragraphs and bring your documents
                                                         to life. Presenter: Michelle Wendt
September 16 - Google Classroom Kickstart - This webinar provides the basics to get started with Google Classroom. Classroom
                                                         is a Learning Module System that seamlessly integrates all Google apps and provides
                                                         a simple but effective interface for both you and your students. It can be used in
                                                         addition to Blackboard. Presenter: Phil Polsinelli
September 21 - Google Classroom Next Level - This webinar focuses on the robust grading possibilities in Google Classroom. We
                                                         will cover how to create rubrics, enabling plagiarism checking, self-grading quizzes
                                                         and utilizing pre-saved comments to speed up grading. Presenter: Phil Polsinelli
September 23 - Intro to Google Slides - Google Slides is Google’s version of PowerPoint. Its strengths are its ease of
                                                         use and immediate ability to share over the web and integrate with Google Classroom.
                                                         This will make your presentations easily accessible for students for both viewing
                                                         and collaborative use. This webinar will get you up and running with your Google Slides
                                                         presentations. Presenter: Phil Polsinelli
September 25 - Screen Recording - This webinar will introduce you to some of the free and easy to use applications
                                                         for screen recording. We will explore the most dependable options available and discuss
                                                         differences and similarities. We will put a special emphasis on Loom which has proven
                                                         to be quite useful for many of our colleagues. Presenter: Phil Polsinelli
Workshop Sessions for COMM StudiesJune 15
Teaching an Exemplary Course -In this session, we will identify strategies for creating a high quality course.
                                                         We will discuss student perspectives on the successes and challenges of remote learning
                                                         to help us prepare for the Fall semester. Presenters: Roberto Castillo, Dennis Fotia
                                                         & Kathy Klein
Best Practices Using Zoom for Lectures - Review best practices for using Zoom to record or deliver lectures. Presenter: Roberto
                                                         Castillo
Promoting Student Engagement - Explore active learning ideas, creative assignments, and technology tools to promote
                                                         student learning. Presenter: Kathy Klein
Basics of Teaching Online with Blackboard - Review ways to use Blackboard to organize and deliver content. Presenter: Dennis
                                                         Fotia
Workshop Sessions for ARTV Studies
July 22 - Preparing for Fall 2020 - This session will provide an interactive, brief overview of course delivery options
                                                         designed to address the uncertainty of conducting our Fall 2020 courses. We will discuss
                                                         useful tools and best course delivery practices to address meeting with students on
                                                         campus, teaching with a hybrid approach and/or teaching online. There will be opportunities
                                                         to answer your specific questions. Presenter: Dr. Kathy Klein
July 22 - Technology to Improve the Student Learning Experience - This session will discuss best practices for using technology to teach and promote
                                                         student learning. We will review some technology tools (apps and free web resources)
                                                         that are beneficial for engaging students in course learning.   After reviewing basic
                                                         technology options, we will review more specific technologies based on the interests
                                                         of session participants. Presenter: Dr. Kathy Klein
August 4 - Zoom: Basics & Beyond - This session will review basic and advanced functions of Zoom, a video conference
                                                         tool that permits meeting with students and colleagues, recording lectures, providing
                                                         demonstrations, and holding virtual office hours.  Zoom is a flexible and reliable
                                                         platform to dynamically interact with students.  We will discuss best practices and
                                                         learn about Zoom technology.  Presenter: Roberto Castillo
August 5 - Introduction to Teaching with Blackboard - This session will describe how to create a Blackboard course that provides students
                                                         with an organized and effective learning experience. We will discuss best practices
                                                         for placing video in a Blackboard course. We will review other features as desired
                                                         by those participating in the session. Presenter: Dennis Fotia
Workshop Sessions for Africana StudiesAugust 6
Teaching an Exemplary Hybrid Course - Identify strategies for creating a high-quality interactive course considering
                                                         the challenges of the Fall semester. We will discuss best practices in hybrid course
                                                         design, teaching strategies to maintain faculty presence with remote instruction,
                                                         strategies to maintain student engagement, and methods to facilitate a social community
                                                         in a hybrid class. Presenters: Kathy Klein, Roberto Castillo, & Dennis Fotia
Teaching with Blackboard - Review ways to use Blackboard to organize and deliver content and promote student
                                                         learning in a hybrid course. This session will focus on instructor presence and using
                                                         Blackboard to increase student interaction with course content. Presenter: Dennis
                                                         Fotia
Teaching with Zoom - This session will review Zoom features for meeting with students and colleagues,
                                                         recording lectures, providing demonstrations, and holding virtual office hours. Zoom
                                                         is a flexible and reliable platform to dynamically interact with students and may
                                                         be used for performance classes. We will discuss best practices and learn about Zoom
                                                         technology to apply to your course needs. Presenter: Roberto Castillo
Technology to Improve Student Interaction and Promote Successful Learning Experiences - This session will discuss best practices for using technology to teach and promote
                                                         student learning. We will review technology tools (apps and free web resources) that
                                                         are beneficial for engaging students in course learning. After reviewing basic technology
                                                         options, we will review more specific technologies based on the interests of session
                                                         participants. Presenter: Kathy Klein
Special Training for Alternate Course Delivery
March 17, 20, 23 & 27 - Enabling Zoom in Blackboard - Zoom is a video conference system that may be integrated in Blackboard. Zoom promotes
                                                         faculty and student collaboration and provides a reliable method to include guest
                                                         lecturers or international speakers in our courses. The instructor will also go over
                                                         how to record and manage your sessions. Presenter: Roberto Castillo
March 18 & 25 - Getting Started with Zoom - In this session learn the basics of getting started with using Zoom. Presenter: Mark
                                                         Pezzota
March 18, 25, 31 & April 3 - Posting and Grading Course Assignments in Blackboard
                                                            for Remote Student Submission - In this session we will review how to post and grade assignments in Blackboard that
                                                         students can submit online and instructors can grade online. Presenter: Dennis Fotía
March 19 & 31 - Creating Tests in Blackboard - Blackboard’s test feature allows students to remotely take exams and quizzes anytime
                                                         or anywhere. In this session, we will review how to create tests in Blackboard and
                                                         use pedagogical best practices to promote reliable and secure assessment. Presenter:
                                                         Roberto Castillo
March 19 & 23 - Getting Started with Blackboard - In this session learn the basics of getting started with using Blackboard. Presenter:
                                                         Tucker Rowlinson
March 19 & 26 - Organizing Course Content for Remote Or Online Delivery - In this session we will review posting and organizing course content materials online
                                                         for students to access remotely. Presenter: Dennis Fotía
March 19 & 24 - Using Blackboard for Student Discussions - In this session, we will review ideas for promoting engaging student discussions without
                                                         being face-to-face or when students and faculty are not together at the same time. Presenter:
                                                         Kathy Klein
March 20 - Recording Attendance and Grading Students Remotely In Blackboard - In this session we will review how to record attendance and use the Grade Center in
                                                         Blackboard. Presenter: Dennis Fotía
March 23 - Best Practices for Prerecording Lectures for Online Use - In this session, we will explore factors to consider when recording face-to-face lectures
                                                         for students to view online. We will review using Zoom as a lecture capture tool and
                                                         discuss other resources. Presenter: Kathy Klein
March 23 - Help! Ideas to Continue Classes Off Campus - In this session we will review basic suggestions to keep students engaged and achieve
                                                         learning outcomes.  We'll also discuss how to continue having a teaching presence
                                                         in a virtual environment. Presenter: Kathy Klein
March 24 - Ask the CLD Team Your Questions - In this session, we will answer your questions about delivering learning experiences
                                                         in an alternate format. Presenters: Roberto Castillo, Dennis Fotía & Kathy Klein
March 25 - A Multi-Modal Approach: Making Accessible Instructional Videos with Closed
                                                            Captioning - This session will provide participants with a direct-hands on presentation of closed
                                                         captioning. Included in the hour-long seminar is an overview of closed captioning
                                                         with a focus on technical development, related legislation and examples of closed
                                                         captioning tools. Participants will have opportunities to practice adding captioning
                                                         to either existing videos or newly created videos followed by a question and answer
                                                         period. Presenter: Shelly Meyers
March 26 - Moving Tests to Blackboard - In this session, we will review how to create quizzes, tests or exams on Blackboard.
                                                         We will discuss options to maintain test integrity. Presenter: Kathy Klein
March 27 - Using Groups in Zoom and Blackboard - In this session, we will review how to create student groups using Breakout Rooms
                                                         in Zoom and Groups in Blackboard. We will discuss how creating groups in either system
                                                         can enable active learning during synchronous meetings as well as outside of class
                                                         time. Presenters: Dennis Fotía and Roberto Castillo
March 30 & April 2 - Moving Student Grades to Blackboard - In this session, you will learn how to make grades available on demand to students
                                                         in the Blackboard Grade Center.  You will save time providing students with updated
                                                         grading information that may have been done previously with paper or manual grading
                                                         systems. Presenter: Dennis Fotía
March 30 & 31 - Using Blackboard Rubrics to Grade Effectively and Efficiently - In this session, we will discuss how to create a rubric in Blackboard that may be
                                                         used to (a) reduce amount of time spent grading assignments, (b) communicate assignment
                                                         expectations to students, (c) efficiently provide summative and formative feedback,
                                                         and (d) promote fair and objective grading. Presenter: Kathy Klein
April 1 - Video in Blackboard - Integrating video into your classroom or course can add dynamic and relevant content
                                                         to assist you in meeting your intended student learning outcomes. In this session,
                                                         the presenter will show how to upload videos to Blackboard as well as add links to
                                                         video content from the library’s Films on Demand collection and catalog as well as
                                                         enable students to upload videos securely within Blackboard. Presenter: Dennis Fotia
April 2 - Ask Your Questions to the CLD Team - In this session, we will answer your questions about delivering courses remotely
                                                         using online tools. If you have questions about how to transform a face-to-face class
                                                         activity into a remote activity, join us for this session. Presenter: Roberto Castillo,
                                                         Dennis Fotía & Kathy Klein
May 27 - Customizing the CLD Sample Syllabus - Did you know that each semester the Center for Learning Design provides sample
                                                         syllabi specifically designed for Stockton faculty and teaching staff?  In this session,
                                                         we will review the syllabi components and discuss customizing syllabi to fit your
                                                         course needs.  The summer syllabi available at https://stockton.edu/ctld/resources.html are
                                                         specifically designed for online course instruction. Presenter: Roberto Castillo
Overview of Best Teaching Practices: Getting Ready for Spring 2020
Jan 14 - Best Practices for Developing a Classroom Course – This session will highlight best practices in developing and teaching a traditional
                                                         (face-to-face) course. We will discuss important aspects of preparing your Spring
                                                         2020 face-to-face course. Presenter: Kathy Klein.
Jan 15 -Best Practices for Developing a Hybrid Course – This session will highlight best practices in developing and teaching a hybrid or
                                                         blended course (online and face-to-face sessions). We will discuss important aspects
                                                         of preparing your Spring 2020 hybrid or blended course. Presenter: Roberto Castillo.
Spring 2020 Professional Development
Teaching With Blackboard Series:
Jan 29 - Attendance and Grade Center - The Blackboard Attendance and Grade Center tools accurately maintain records of student
                                                         attendance and grades. In this session, we will examine how the attendance tool works
                                                         and integrates into the grade center. We will explore additional features such as
                                                         creating and managing columns in the Grade Center. (Presenter: Dennis Fotia) 
Feb 12 – Blackboard Tests – Using Blackboard’s test feature for exams, quizzes and more reduces paper and permits
                                                         assessment to occur anytime or anywhere. In this session, we will review how to create
                                                         tests in Blackboard and use pedagogical best practices to promote reliable and secure
                                                         assessment. (Presenter: Kathy Klein) 
Feb 26 - File Management - This session will provide tips to organize and manage files in Blackboard to make
                                                         course materials easier to find and use for faculty and students. (Presenter: Dennis
                                                         Fotia) 
March 11- Rubrics - This session will explore best practices in using and creating rubrics to simplify
                                                         the grading process and provide students with clear assignment expectations and useful
                                                         feedback.  We will learn how to create and use a rubric in Blackboard. (Presenter:
                                                         Kathy Klein) 
April 1 - Video in Blackboard - Integrating video into your classroom or course can add dynamic and relevant content
                                                         to assist you in meeting your intended student learning outcomes. In this session,
                                                         the presenter will show how to upload videos to Blackboard as well as add links to
                                                         video content from the library’s Films on Demand collection and catalog as well as
                                                         enable students to upload videos securely within Blackboard. (Presenter: Dennis Fotia) 
April 22 - Creating Tests in Blackboard - Consider using Blackboard's test feature to allows students to remotely take final
                                                         exams, quizzes or tests. In this session, we will review how to create tests in Blackboard
                                                         and use pedagogical best practices to promote reliable and secure assessment. (Presenter:
                                                         Roberto Castillo)
April 29 - Using the Blackboard Grade Center - In this session, you will learn how to make grades available on demand to students
                                                         in the Blackboard Grade Center. You will save time providing students with updated
                                                         grading information that may have been done previously with paper or manual grading
                                                         systems. Presenter: Dennis Fotía
May 18 - What's New in Blackboard? - In this session, we will review improvements and changes to the latest version
                                                         of Blackboard. Presenter: Dennis Fotia
Teaching With Technology Series:
Feb 5 - Qualtrics - The instructor will discuss best practices when designing a survey and go over the
                                                         basics in survey creation in Qualtrics. (Presenter: Roberto Castillo) 
Feb 19 - Discussion Tools - This session will explore discussion tools that faculty/teaching staff may use to
                                                         promote more dynamic discussions and keep students engaged with learning activities.
                                                          (Presenter: Roberto Castillo) 
March 4 - Zoom - This session reviews Zoom which is a video conference system that may be integrated
                                                         in Blackboard. Zoom promotes faculty and student collaboration and provides a reliable
                                                         method to include guest lecturers or international speakers in our courses. (Presenter:
                                                         Roberto Castillo)
March 25 - A Multi-Modal Approach: Making Accessible Instructional Videos with Closed
                                                            Captioning - This session will provide participants with a direct-hands on presentation of closed
                                                         captioning. Included in the hour-long seminar is an overview of closed captioning
                                                         with a focus on technical development, related legislation and examples of closed
                                                         captioning tools. Participants will have opportunities to practice adding captioning
                                                         to either existing videos or newly created videos followed by a question and answer
                                                         period. (Presenter: Shelly Meyers) 
Fall 2019 Professional Development
Teaching with Blackboard Series
Nov 14 - Rubrics - This session will explore best practices in using and creating rubrics to simplify
                                                         the grading process and provide students with clear assignment expectations and useful
                                                         feedback.  We will learn how to create and use a rubric in Blackboard. (Presenter:
                                                         Shelly Meyers)
Sep 19 - Attendance and Grade Center - The Blackboard Attendance and Grade Center tools accurately maintain records of
                                                         student attendance and grades. In this session, we will examine how the attendance
                                                         tool works and integrates into the grade center. We will explore additional features
                                                         such as creating and managing columns in the Grade Center. (Presenter: Dennis Fotia)
Oct 2 & 17 - Tests & Surveys - Deploying tests and surveys digitally can reduce paper and allow assessment to
                                                         occur anytime or anywhere. In this session, the presenter will show how to create
                                                         tests and surveys in Blackboard and how to make them accessible to students using
                                                         pedagogical best practices to promote reliable and secure assessment. (Presenter:
                                                         Dennis Fotia & Roberto Castillo)
Oct 3 - Video in Blackboard - Integrating video into your classroom or course can add dynamic and relevant content
                                                         to assist you in meeting your intended student learning outcomes. In this session,
                                                         the presenter will show how to upload videos to Blackboard as well as add links to
                                                         video content from the library’s Films on Demand collection and catalog as well as
                                                         enable students to upload videos securely within Blackboard. (Presenter: Dennis Fotia)
Teaching with Technology Series.
Nov 20 - Google Suite - This session will introduce Google Suite (G Suite). We will explore apps/tools available
                                                         in G Suite to consider opportunities available to improve teaching and learning practices.
                                                         We will focus on ways to work smarter not harder. (Presenter: Kathy Klein)
Sep 11 - Polling - This session will introduce polling tools that faculty/teaching staff may use to
                                                         create interactive, real-time assessment measures and keep students engaged with meaningful,
                                                         interactive learning activities.  Make your next class more engaging by learning about
                                                         polling technology. (Presenter: Kathy Klein)
Sep 25 - Video Tools and Resources - This session will explore ways to locate, create, curate and share video content
                                                         with students. We will explore tools that allow us to promote student engagement and
                                                         interaction with video content. (Presenter: Kathy Klein)
Sep 30 - Best Practices with PowerPoint - Learn best practices for creating an effective PowerPoint presentation that supports
                                                         you and engages students. (Presenter: Roberto Castillo)
Oct 9 - Zoom - This session reviews Zoom which is a video conference system that may be integrated
                                                         in Blackboard. Zoom promotes faculty and student collaboration and provides a reliable
                                                         method to include guest lecturers or international speakers in our courses. (Presenter:
                                                         Roberto Castillo)
Oct 23 - Qualtrics - The instructor will discuss best practices when designing a survey and go over
                                                         the basics in survey creation in Qualtrics. (Presenter: Roberto Castillo)
Week of Teaching (Nov 4 - 7, 2019)
Nov 4
9:00 am to 9:30 am - Classroom Policies that Promote Equity and Learning presented by Nancy Reddy
9:55 am to 12:35 pm - Teaching & Research with Surveys (Qualtrics)  presented by Roberto Castillo
12:45 pm to 2:00 pm - Assessing Student Learning: Using Bb Grade Center presented by Dennis Fotia
Poster presentations at the following times:
Nov 5
Poster presentations at the following times:
1:30 pm to 2:00 pm - Empowerment Infographics (Guia Calicdan-Apostle).
2:30 pm to 4:20 pm - Drop-in sessions with Center for Learning Design (CLD) staff (Kathy Klein, Dennis Fotia & Roberto Castillo) Explore and discuss a variety of course
                                                   design and delivery topics.  Stop in and stay as long as you want.
Nov 6
9:55 am to 11:10 am - Student Engagement presented by Kathy Klein
11:30 am 12:30 pm - e-Portfolios presented by Shelly Myers 
2:10 pm to 3:25 pm - Effective Online Teaching presented by Dennis Fotia
Poster presentations at the following times:
Nov 7
11:15 am to 12:15 pm - Increase Student Engagement with Polling presented by Roberto Castillo
1:30 pm to 2:30 pm - Roundtable Discussion about Teaching & Learning Topics hosted by Kathy Klein
Stockton University 101 Vera King Farris Drive Galloway, NJ 08205-9441  (609) 652-1776  Maps, Directions & Parking  Accessibility Statement
Additional Locations


Stockton University is an Equal Opportunity Institution
©2024 Stockton University
