Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://bloustein.rutgers.edu/people/samuel/
Dr. Jim Samuel is an Associate Professor of Practice and Executive Director of the Informatics Program at Bloustein. He is an information and artificial intelligence (AI) scientist, with significant industry experience in finance, technology, entrepreneurship and data analytics. Dr. Samuel’s primary research covers human intelligence and artificial intelligences interaction and information philosophy.
Dr. Samuel’s applied research focuses on the optimal use of big data and smart data driven AI applications, text analytics, natural language processing, public informatics and socioeconomic implications of AI, applied machine learning, social media analytics, AI education and AI bias.
Dr. Samuel completed his Ph.D. from the Zicklin School of Business, Baruch College – CUNY, and he also has M.Arch and M.B.A (International Finance) degrees along with AI/NLP training from Stanford University. His research has been published in top academic journals and he has served as Editor in Chief and in multiple editorial roles. Dr. Samuel has worked with large multinational financial services corporations, and advises businesses and organizations on analytics and AI driven value creation strategies. He is passionate about research driven thought leadership in AI, information philosophy, data science and informatics.
Teaching topics include Artificial Intelligence, natural language processing, generation and understanding for Public Informatics, data science, and supervised, unsupervised and reinforcement machine learning.
33 Livingston AvenueNew Brunswick, NJ 08901
848-932-5475ejb@ejb.rutgers.edu
Student Services
Rutgers Catalog
Webreg
Degree Navigator
Graduation 
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Doctoral Program
KDI Scholars Program
Admitted Students Open House
Faculty/Staff Resources
Information Technology
Business Services
Event Management
Facilities
Communications
Submit an Event
Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback Form.
© 2024 Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey. All rights reserved.Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy33 Livingston Avenue | New Brunswick, New Jersey 08901
