Strayer University official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://www.strayer.edu/online-degrees/masters/master-of-science-in-information-systems/artificial-intelligence-system-management/
By Degree Level
By Degree Level
By Degree Level
By Degree Level
By Degree Level
By Degree Level
By Degree Level
By Degree Level
By Degree Level
By Degree Level
By Degree Level
By Degree Level
By Degree Level
COST OF YOUR DEGREE
PAYING FOR YOUR DEGREE
Use our calculator to get an idea of what a Strayer degree can cost you.
HOW TO APPLY
Get an education designed for you.
WHO WE ARE
WHAT YOU'LL EXPERIENCE
Get a laptop to help with your studies. Eligibility requirements and restrictions apply.
The Artificial Intelligence (AI) Systems Management concentration can help you build skills needed to manage AI systems within businesses and organizations, while focusing on AI strategies to enhance performance. 
The Artificial Intelligence (AI) Systems Management concentration is designed to provide students with a comprehensive understanding of AI technologies, their implementation and the management principles required to drive successful AI initiatives. This concentration is suitable for individuals who are interested in the intersection of AI and business strategies.
Class size varies based on course objectives and the teaching demands of the subject matter. In general, Strayer University aims to keep the student-to-instructor ratio low.
Strayer University has distinct accreditations and affiliations that attest to our academic quality. We're committed to meeting quality standards, so you can earn a diploma you're proud to display. View the ACBSP student achievement information.
Strayer University is an accredited institution and a member of the Middle States Commission on Higher Education (MSCHE), http://www.msche.org. Strayer University’s accreditation status is Accreditation Reaffirmed. MSCHE most recently reaffirmed Strayer University’s accreditation status in June 2017, with the next self-study evaluation scheduled for the 2025–2026 academic year.
MSCHE is an institutional accrediting agency recognized by the U.S. Secretary of Education and the Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA).
Expected Graduation
...
Approximate Total
...
Eligibility Rules and Restrictions apply
*Student is required to take two courses per quarter during disbursement period
Approximate Cost of Your Degree
Eligibility Rules and Restrictions apply
*Student is required to take two courses per quarter during disbursement period
Have additional questions?
 Calculate the approximate time commitment of your degree.
Calculate the approximate cost of your degree 
Have additional questions?
The MSIS Artificial Intelligence Systems Management program consists of 12 courses, with the price of $2,490 per course. There are additional fees for textbooks and supplies, a $65 technology fee each term and a one-time $150 degree conferral fee. 
Courses from another institution may be eligible for transfer credits to Strayer, which can help reduce the number of courses you need to graduate and your overall tuition. You can transfer up to four classes toward your master’s degree. The Strayer transfer credit page has more information as well as a tool to estimate how many transfer credits you may be able to apply to your Strayer degree program.
Students enrolled in the Master of Business Administration in North Carolina or Pennsylvania may transfer up to four classes
There are a number of financial aid options worth exploring on our financial aid page. To apply for federal aid, prospective students should fill out the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) form. Stafford loans are available for graduate study. These are direct unsubsidized loans, not based on financial need. Unlike subsidized loans, Stafford loan interest will accrue while in the program. Making interest payments while in school will help reduce the amount of principal that would otherwise build up, reducing your end cost.
There are also scholarships and private loans available for Strayer students.
More than 500 organizations – including corporations and community colleges – invest in their employees by partnering with Strayer University to offer access to discounted education programs. If your employer is a Corporate Alliance Partner, you may qualify for programs that can help you discover career pathways in your field.
Non-federal loans may pay the difference between the cost of attendance and the total of loans and grants received from other tuition assistance programs. The terms and conditions of federal loans are often more favorable than private loans and should be considered before exploring private loans. 
Scholarships are offered to eligible students currently serving in the military, as well as military spouses. Strayer is also approved by Veterans Affairs to accept and process veteran education benefits. Learn more about the Strayer University active military assistance program here.
In addition to participating fully in the Yellow Ribbon Program, Strayer is approved by Veterans Affairs to accept and process veteran education benefits. Student veterans can receive transfer credit for military training and life experiences.
This program provides a comprehensive introduction to the fundamentals of AI systems management. Students will learn how to develop AI strategies aligned with business goals, create implementation roadmaps and overcome common challenges associated with AI adoption. View all courses.
All MSIS students take a set list of required courses. The remaining credits come from their choice of concentration.
This course provides a comprehensive introduction to the fundamentals of AI systems management. It covers various AI strategies and their impact on business performance and capabilities. Students will gain an understanding of how AI can be leveraged to optimize business processes, improve decision-making and drive innovation. Emphasis will be placed on understanding the managerial aspects of AI, such as aligning AI strategies with business goals, assessing ethical considerations and managing risks associated with AI systems.  
This course focuses on the strategic planning and implementation of AI initiatives within an organization. Students will learn how to develop AI strategies aligned with business goals, create implementation roadmaps and overcome common challenges associated with AI adoption. They will explore topics such as data governance, privacy and security in the context of AI implementation while gaining hands-on experience through practical exercises and case studies. Prerequisite: CIS509
This course explores how AI can drive innovation and support strategic decision-making within organizations. Students will learn about AI-enabled innovation processes, such as generative design, deep learning, reinforcement learning and advanced analytics. Students will explore ethical considerations, bias mitigation and the responsible use of AI systems while working on real-world projects to apply AI techniques to strategic business challenges. Prerequisite: CIS509
This course provides an integrated approach to system analysis and design processes. Students will explore advanced topics to evaluate and select system development methodologies and design system solutions. The role of effective interpersonal communication techniques and integration practices with users and user systems is emphasized.
This course covers the concepts, issues, principles and techniques for managing organizational data resources. Topics include the strategic information requirements of organizations, modeling those requirements using conceptual data modeling techniques, verifying the structural characteristics with normalization and converting the conceptual data models into physical databases. Emphasis will be placed on the application and strategic use of database systems.
This course is an integrative capstone course for the Master of Science in Information Systems program. Students will examine and address real-world projects and problems and apply project management techniques to create practical solutions. The course takes an integrative and senior management approach to address the integration of a broad range of technologies inclusive of databases, security, networking, computer infrastructure and human computer interaction.
Your education can help you pursue your professional and personal goals. While Strayer cannot guarantee that a graduate will secure any specific career outcome, such as a job title, promotion or salary increase, we encourage you to explore the potential impact you can have in the information systems field.
The artificial intelligence systems management concentration can provide the skills to help you implement and drive successful AI.
In addition, students who complete this concentration will be prepared to:
  84  
of Strayer master’s alumni agree that Strayer was the right choice for earning their degree.
Alumni Survey 2022
Before you can pursue your master’s degree, you’ll need to enroll at Strayer. Here’s what you’ll need to get started for admission to the university. 
A completed application and enrollment agreement, as applicable
Proof of a completed baccalaureate degree from an accredited college or university with a cumulative GPA of 2.50 out of 4.0
Official copies of transcripts from all other colleges or universities attended
A valid, current and legible government-issued photo identification
Learn more about the admission process at Strayer.
Students applying to Washington, D.C., or New Jersey campuses must provide proof of proper immunization.
Some or all of the credits you’ve earned may be transferable.
We welcome international students.
Fight computer hackers and the criminals who break into networks, steal information and corrupt data. Explore these settings and job roles as you consider your future path.
 Employment settings to explore 
Related job titles ​to explore 
This is the career outcomes disclaimer, pending final copy.
Come to a campus near you for guidance and support. You’ll have access to helpful resources, a supportive community and plenty of spaces to learn and grow.
Your admissions officer is here to guide you through every step of the process, from completing your application to choosing your concentration.
 Copyright © 2024 Strayer University 
 

 

