Texas A&M International University official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://www.tamiu.edu/ce/ai-machine-learning-bootcamp.shtml
Artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) are among the most in-demand skills in the world. With the growth in automation and robotics across industries, there are massive job opportunities in AI programming, data science, engineering, and research. 
The AI Machine Learning Bootcamp is a six-month comprehensive training course for professionals interested in pursuing a career in AI and ML. You will complete over 300 hours of self-paced training learning key concepts and models along with practical programming skills in Python and ML. You will also prepare to pass the Microsoft Azure AI Engineer Certification Exam AI-102: Designing and Implementing an Azure AI Solution.
Register for the AI Machine Learning Bootcamp
According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), employment for AI and machine learning professionals is estimated to grow by 22% until 2030, almost three times the rate for all occupations.The BLS also states that median annual salary in this industry is $126,830 as of May 2020. The lowest 10% earned less than $72,210, and the highest 10% earned over $194,430. The top-paying employers of professionals with AI and ML skills are software publishers, followed by research and development in the physical, engineering, and life sciences.
In our AI & Machine Learning Bootcamp, you will explore:
Request More Information
Register Now
Felix Quinque has a Ph.D. in Quantum Computing from the University of Portsmouth and a B.S. degree in Artificial Intelligence and Physics from Maastricht University. He is the Co-Founder & Director of OctoShrew, a machine learning consultancy, and software development firm.
After you complete our bootcamp, you will be able to apply various AI and ML concepts in real-life projects in a variety of roles such as:
Given the technical nature of our AI & Machine Learning Bootcamp, it is ideal if you are an existing data professional with experience in data analysis or data science. Otherwise, you must have experience with algebra, mathematics, and calculus and have some basic programming knowledge.
This course will prepare you to pass the Microsoft Azure AI certification (MS AI-102), which allows you to work as an AI Engineer. In this role, you will build, manage, and deploy AI applications leveraging Azure Cognitive Services, Azure Cognitive Search, and Microsoft Bot Framework. The course will use C# or Python as the programming language.
Learning is entirely online and self-paced to suit your schedule. You’ll have access to interactive video lessons, labs for real-world practice, discussion boards to engage with peers, and live one-on-one coaching sessions with an industry expert instructor. 
Yes, you will go through exercises based on real-life use cases. The results are discussed during the mentoring sessions. You are also required to work on and submit a capstone project related to autonomous cars. You need to pass this to graduate.
You have coaching sessions where you get advice from the instructor. You have access to five coaching sessions that they can schedule.
This is a self-paced course that can be completed 100% online. Open enrollment means that you can start anytime.
Request More Information
5201 University BoulevardStudent Center 118Laredo, TX 78041 Tel. 956.326.3068 — Fax 956.326.2838E-mail: ce@tamiu.eduOffice Hours: Mon. - Fri., 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
  TAMIU CE Facebook       TAMIU CE Instagram       TAMIU CE E-mail  
Texas A&M International University
5201 University Boulevard
							Laredo, Texas 78041
							
956.326.2001

enroll@tamiu.edu


Map Marker Icon Campus Map

Learn More
Navigate
