University of Minnesota - Duluth official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://www.d.umn.edu/cla/faculty/troufs/anth3635/ceextracredit.html
Countries, Cultures, Regions, and Territories of Europe 

           topics and resources

           European Studies 

            language dictionaries 

            BBC News: Europe Eurostat–Europa (EU)
Extra 
      Credit Opportunities 
(optional) 
You may earn extra credit . . .
. . . by doing a case study
and / or
You may do one Extra Credit Case Study 
            
      option
 
  and / or one Extra Credit Film / Lecture / Event  Review
 
details on the Case Study Extra Credit Option
Instructions and supporting information for the Case Study Extra Credit Option 
 
details on the Film /  Lecture / Event Review Extra Credit Option
Instructions and supporting information for the Film or Lecture Review Extra Credit Option 
 
Extra Credit Case Study Option 
 Extra credit Case Study papers 
  allow you to cover an additional course topic in a more comprehensive fashion. 


You may write on any topic related to this course, including those disscussed below, but your paper 
                  must reflect work and include materials not considered a normal part 
                  of this course. 
Extra credit Case Study papers can receive up to 100 points-- if they 
                  are turned in on time.

              Point guidelines . . . 
A-grade papers receive up to 90 - 100 points  

B-grade papers receive 83 points

C-grade papers receive 73 points

              "The Curve"
 (*percentages will vary a little bit depending on the final number of Forum topics for the term) 

Extra Credit Film / Lecture Review  Option


                (Please Note: For the Film / Lecture Review Option you must choose a feature-length  film or a documentary relevant to the class that is not assigned in class.) 
              

As mentioned in the "Note on Videos and Visual Anthropology" one of the four main characteristics of American Anthropology is fieldwork, and the next best thing to hopping a bus or  plane is going to places and viewing subjects by film.
Although in Peoples and Cultures of Europe we view  a substantial number of videos, in the area of Peoples and Cultures of Europe many hundreds of quality films exist--including feature films, documentaries, "shorts," interesting YouTube vignettes.
For the Film / Lecture Review Option choose an approved feature-length  film or a documentary that is not assigned in class and review it, as you might for a column in your college newspaper.
A few recommended "Optional" and "Supplementary" videos are listed on your Moodle page "Topic Presentations" sections. This same information is also available for the semester on the "Video Schedule" page. You may choose others, but check with the instructor first.
 
 Qualifying public lectures will be announced as opportunities arise. The public lectures extra credit option could include approved lectures available on-line from Open University type lectures availble from some universities.
See, for e.g. . . .
 
Extra credit Film / Lecture Reviews can receive up to 30 points -- if they 
            are turned in on time.

          Point guidelines . . . 
A-grade papers receive up to 28 - 30 points  

B-grade papers receive 25 points

C-grade papers receive 20 points

          "The Curve" 
(*percentages will vary a little bit depending on the final number of Forum topics for the term) 

Instructions 
          and 
          Supporting Information
 
 The Purdue Online  Writing Lab 
Descriptive Essays
Conducting Research 
General Research  Papers
   Argument Papers
   Exploratory Papers
   Types of APA Paper
APA General Format 
            (7th Ed.) 
   APA Sample
MLA General Format 
MLA Sample Paper
Chicago-Turabian Manual of Style
            (CMOS 17th Ed.) 
General Format
   CMOS Author Date  Sample Paper
   CMOS NB Sample Paper
 University of Minnesota Duluth Student Academic Integrity Policy
<http://d.umn.edu/academic-affairs/academic-policies/classroom-policies/student-academic-integrity>

UMD Office of Student and Community Standards
 <http://www.d.umn.edu/conduct/>
              .








Use of AI-content generators for  assignments in this class

When I taught Advanced Writing for the Social Sciences here at UMD, for over twenty-five years, my rule of thumb advice to students was to plan to spend  60% or more of their time and effort revising drafts (for academic type writing). 
In 2001 Wikipedia appeared on the scene and very quickly became a useful tool as a starting point for many academic projects even though as an open-source resource the Wikipedia entries are not checked and verified in the same manner as other traditional reference materials.
Spelling and grammar checkers arrived on the general scene and helped with spelling and grammar checking, but, as you no doubt have discovered, they continue to require human editing.
And, of course, before that we had a selection of excellent Encyclopedia offering good starting points for many projects, the most popular being The Encyclopedia Brittanica. 
And long before that there were libraries--since at least the days of Alexandria in Egypt, in the third century B.C.
The bottom line . . . 
                  
Today the evolution of research resources and aids continues with the relatively rapid appearance of ChatGPT and other automated content generators.
 As many folks have already found out, they can be very useful as starting points, much like their predecessors. But, from the academic point of view, they are still only starting points.
                   
Professors nationwide are for the most part advised, and even encouraged, to experiment with the potentials of ChatGPT and similar apps. 
In this class it is fine to experiment, with the caveat that all of your written academic work demonstrates that your personal efforts—including content development and revision—reflect your personal originality, exploration, analysis, explanation, integrating and synthesizing of ideas, organizational skills, evaluation, and overall learning and critical thinking efforts. 
That is to say you may experiment with the AI tool to do tasks such as e.g,   brainstorming, narrowing topics, writing first drafts, editing text, and the like. AI-generated works should in no case be more than that.
In the end you need to become familiar enough with the various subjects,  peoples, and places discussed in this class to research a topic and problem-solve on your own, and carry on an intelligent  conversation about them in modern-day society . . . a conversation that goes byond your voicing an unsupported opinion.



Please ask questions of and offer comments to







troufs@d.umn.edu







USEFUL LINKS FOR MORE INFORMATION:



From Jill Jenson, Director of the Academic Writing & Learning Center



Some citation methods:                          



Citing from ChatGPT in APA Style


Citing from ChatGPT in MLA Style


Citing Material from ChatGPT








For the record, what follows is the official UMD Academic Integrity Policy. Note that "unless otherwise noted by the faculty
                        member" this is the default policy.

"UMD’s Academic Integrity policy covers any work done by automated content generators such as ChatGPT or other generative artificial intelligence tools unless otherwise noted by the faculty
                            member. These tools present new challenges and opportunities."
                          
                            "Within the confines of this
                            class The use of AI-content generators is strictly prohibited for any stage of homework/assignment
                            (e.g., draft or final product). The primary purposes of college are developing your thinking skills,
                            being creative with ideas, and expanding your understanding on a wide variety of topics. Using
                            these content generating AI tools thwarts the goal of homework/assignments to provide
                            students opportunities to achieve these purposes. Please make the most of this time that you
                            have committed to a college education and learn these skills now, so that you can employ them
                            throughout your life." -- Jennifer Mencl, UMD Associate Vice Chancellor, Academic Affairs, 10 May 2023 





Current information from the UMN Senate Committee on Educational Policy Resources

<https://provost.umn.edu/chatgpt-syllabus-statements>







See Also Using Wikipedia and other Standard Reference Works
 




 



.
"Academic dishonesty 
          tarnishes UMD's reputation and discredits the   accomplishments of 
          students.  UMD is committed to providing students   every possible 
          opportunity to grow in mind and spirit.  This pledge can   only be 
          redeemed in an environment of trust, honesty, and fairness.  As   a 
          result, academic dishonesty is regarded as a serious offense by all   
          members of the academic community.  In keeping with this ideal, this   
          course will adhere to UMD's Student Academic Integrity Policy, which   
          can be found at [http://www.d.umn.edu/conduct/integrity/Academic_Integrity_Policy.htm].
          This policy sanctions students engaging in academic dishonesty with 
          penalties up to and including expulsion from the university for repeat 
          offenders."
          
          
          
          — UMD Educational Policy Committee, Jill Jensen, Chair 
          (08/16/2007)

Use of AI-content generators for  assignments in this class
When I taught Advanced Writing for the Social Sciences here at UMD, for over twenty-five years, my rule of thumb advice to students was to plan to spend  60% or more of their time and effort revising drafts (for academic type writing). 
In 2001 Wikipedia appeared on the scene and very quickly became a useful tool as a starting point for many academic projects even though as an open-source resource the Wikipedia entries are not checked and verified in the same manner as other traditional reference materials.
Spelling and grammar checkers arrived on the general scene and helped with spelling and grammar checking, but, as you no doubt have discovered, they continue to require human editing.
And, of course, before that we had a selection of excellent Encyclopedia offering good starting points for many projects, the most popular being The Encyclopedia Brittanica. 
And long before that there were libraries--since at least the days of Alexandria in Egypt, in the third century B.C.
The bottom line . . . 
                  
Today the evolution of research resources and aids continues with the relatively rapid appearance of ChatGPT and other automated content generators.
 As many folks have already found out, they can be very useful as starting points, much like their predecessors. But, from the academic point of view, they are still only starting points.
                   
Professors nationwide are for the most part advised, and even encouraged, to experiment with the potentials of ChatGPT and similar apps. 
In this class it is fine to experiment, with the caveat that all of your written academic work demonstrates that your personal efforts—including content development and revision—reflect your personal originality, exploration, analysis, explanation, integrating and synthesizing of ideas, organizational skills, evaluation, and overall learning and critical thinking efforts. 
That is to say you may experiment with the AI tool to do tasks such as e.g,   brainstorming, narrowing topics, writing first drafts, editing text, and the like. AI-generated works should in no case be more than that.
In the end you need to become familiar enough with the various subjects,  peoples, and places discussed in this class to research a topic and problem-solve on your own, and carry on an intelligent  conversation about them in modern-day society . . . a conversation that goes byond your voicing an unsupported opinion.


USEFUL LINKS FOR MORE INFORMATION:
From Jill Jenson, Director of the Academic Writing & Learning Center
For the record, what follows is the official UMD Academic Integrity Policy. Note that "unless otherwise noted by the faculty
                        member" this is the default policy.
"UMD’s Academic Integrity policy covers any work done by automated content generators such as ChatGPT or other generative artificial intelligence tools unless otherwise noted by the faculty
                            member. These tools present new challenges and opportunities."
                          
                            "Within the confines of this
                            class The use of AI-content generators is strictly prohibited for any stage of homework/assignment
                            (e.g., draft or final product). The primary purposes of college are developing your thinking skills,
                            being creative with ideas, and expanding your understanding on a wide variety of topics. Using
                            these content generating AI tools thwarts the goal of homework/assignments to provide
                            students opportunities to achieve these purposes. Please make the most of this time that you
                            have committed to a college education and learn these skills now, so that you can employ them
                            throughout your life." -- Jennifer Mencl, UMD Associate Vice Chancellor, Academic Affairs, 10 May 2023 





Current information from the UMN Senate Committee on Educational Policy Resources

<https://provost.umn.edu/chatgpt-syllabus-statements>


See Also Using Wikipedia and other Standard Reference Works
 

 and the UMD Student Conduct Code
 <http://www.d.umn.edu/conduct/code/>

and the

            Student Conduct Code Statement (students' rights)
 <http://www.d.umn.edu/conduct/conduct/conduct-statement.html>
The instructor will enforce and students are expected to follow the   University's Student Conduct Code [http://www1.umn.edu/regents/policies/academic/Student_Conduct_Code.html].
          Appropriate classroom   conduct promotes an environment of academic 
          achievement and integrity.   Disruptive classroom behavior that 
          substantially or repeatedly   interrupts either the instructor's ability
          to teach, or student   learning, is prohibited. Disruptive behavior 
          includes inappropriate use   of technology in the classroom. Examples 
          include ringing cell phones,   text-messaging, watching videos, playing 
          computer games, doing email,   or surfing the Internet on your computer 
          instead of note-taking or   other instructor-sanctioned activities."
          
          — UMD Educational Policy Committee, Jill Jensen, Chair
          (08/16/2007)  
 Instructor and Student Responsibilities Policy

AVISO!
A Note on Extra Credit Papers
Failure to comply with the above 
          codes and standards when submitting an Extra Credit paper will result in
          a penalty commensurate with the lapse, up to and including an F final grade for the course, and, at a minimum, a reduction in  total 
          points no fewer than the points available for the Extra Credit project. 
          The penalty will not simply be a zero for the project, and the 
          incident will be reported to the UMD Academic Integrity Officer in the 
          Office of Student and Community Standards.
 
A Note on "Cutting and Pasting" without the Use of Quotation Marks
(EVEN IF you have a citation to the source somewhere in your paper)
If you use others' words and/or works you MUST so indicate that with the use of quotation marks. Failure to use quotation marks to indicate that the materials are not of your authorship constitutes plagiarism—even if you have a citation to the source elsewhere in your paper/work.
Patterned failure to so indicate that the materials are not of your own authorship will result in an F grade for the course.
Other instances of improper attribution will result in a 0 (zero) for the assignment (or a reduction in points equal to the value of an Extra Credit paper), and a reduction of one grade in the final grade of the course.
All incidents will be reported to the UMD Academic Integrity Officer in the 
          Office of Student and Community Standards as is required by University Policy.
 






 
AE Index of Major Items



AE 1.0 "Sunday Memos"
 
AE 2.0 Video Schedule


AE 3.0 Slides Schedule
 
AE 4.0 Text Assignments Schedule


AE Main Due Dates
 
AE Spring 2024 Calendar


 
 
 










top of page A-Z index



          
      


TR HomePage








© 1998
        
        - 2024 Timothy G. Roufs    
Page URL: http://
www.d.umn.edu
/cla/faculty/troufs/anth3635/ceextracredit.html


Site Information / Disclaimers ~ Main A-Z Index
















View Stats









Duluth Campus

CONTACT
Contact UMD

        1049 University Drive
        Duluth, MN 55812
      
VISIT

Campus Tours
Maps & Directions
Transportation & Parking



RESOURCES FOR

Newly Admitted Students
Current Students
Employee Resources
Alumni
Parents & Family
Community & Visitors



GIVE
Support UMD
SEARCH

Directory
Employment
Events
Library



CONNECT









 

© 2024 Regents of the University of Minnesota. All rights reserved. Privacy Statement
The University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity educator and employer. Campus Climate

 










© 2024 Regents of the University of Minnesota. All rights reserved. Privacy Statement
The University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity educator and employer. Campus Climate
