University of Colorado at Colorado Springs official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://frc.uccs.edu/teaching_resources/ai_in_academics
It may come as no surprise that some students today are taking advantage of the power of Artificial Intelligence (AI) to help them with their assignments. One popular tool is chatGPT, which can write papers and essays, even art, poems, and computer code. It can be challenging to detect the use of this when students submit their work.
In light of this concern, here are some resources to consider.:
Both articles offer practical advice not only for communicating with students about the use of AI, but also actually embracing it and using it to advantage in the classroom. Here some suggestions taken from these articles:
There are many more suggestions and much greater detail in both of these articles.
Given that anything generated by AI has been culled from the web and restated or recreated without attribution (and sometimes even with false attribution), that content could be considered as to have been plagiarized. Caution is urged with what you allow students to use from generative AI.
[This syllabus statement is useful when you are allowing the use of AI tools for certain purposes, but not for others. Adjust this statement to reflect your particular parameters of acceptable use. The following is an example. (Adapted from Temple University's Center for the Advancement of Teaching.)]
The use of generative AI tools is permitted in this course for the following activities:
The use of generative AI tools is not permitted in this course for the following activities:
The use of AI tools, including ChatGPT, is permitted in this course for students who wish to use them. You are responsible for the information you submit based on an AI query (for instance, that it does not violate intellectual property laws, or contain misinformation or unethical content). Your use of AI tools must be properly documented and cited, using quotation marks or other appropriate indicators of quoted material when appropriate, in order to stay within university policies on academic honesty.
The use of AI tools, including ChatGPT, is permitted in this course for specific assignments only. When the use of the tool is allowed, it will be explicitly noted in the assignment directions. You are responsible for the information you submit based on an AI query (for instance, that it does not violate intellectual property laws, or contain misinformation or unethical content). Your use of AI tools must be properly documented and cited, using quotation marks or other appropriate indicators of quoted material when appropriate, in order to stay within university policies on academic honesty.
The Faculty Resource Center does not recommend this. Our students will likely be expected to use AI in the workplace when they graduate, and we should be teaching them how to use it responsibly and ethically. Also, there are currently no tools that can accurately detect AI writing. In fact, OpenAI recently discontinued its AI writing detector due to a "low rate of accuracy". All of the available tools today generate too many false positives that could lead to false allegations.
For a more holistic approach for discerning acceptable use of AI-generated assignments, contact the FRC for a consultation.
Do a Google search for "artificial intelligence syllabus statement".
Last updated January 16, 2024 Contact Us

      For questions regarding website accessibility or to notify the university regarding online information or 
      functionality that is currently inaccessible, visit Web Feedback.
    
