University of Nebraska Medical Center official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://www.unmc.edu/newsroom/2023/12/11/breakthrough-thinking-explores-generative-ai-in-education/
Jeffrey P. Gold, MD, University of Nebraska Medical Center chancellor, is advocate for transforming higher education, academic medicine and health care.
UNMC leaders are creating a more vibrant academic health science center and a stronger economy for all Nebraskans.
UNMC creates an environment of diversity, equity and inclusion for all our faculty, staff and students. 
UNMC, we work from core values to achieve our strategic goals and vision for transforming the health of Nebraska and beyond.
The University of Nebraska Medical Center has campuses across Nebraska, bonded through a shared culture and in real time, by distance-learning technology.
The UNMC Department of Public Safety works to provide a safe environment for those who work on, learn at and visit our campuses, as well as lost and found.
Maps and directions to the University of Nebraska Medical Center campuses.
Learn about UNMC Alert, which sends emergency notifications to UNMC students and employees.
As the only public academic health science center in the state, so we embrace the responsibility to reach out across Nebraska and beyond.
UNMC's work extends to each region of Nebraska, as we bring the latest breakthroughs to all citizens, from the smallest communities to the largest cities.


UNMC's innovative educational engagement programs raise awareness as we help shape the future of health care and recruit the future health care workforce
The Healing Arts program at UNMC and Nebraska Medicine aims to transform the health care experience by connecting people with the power of art.
The University of Nebraska Medical Center uses a strategic planning process to adjust strategies each year for achieving eight goals.
Procurement processes for bids and vendors, the Central Scheduling Office and other services at the University of Nebraska Medical Center.
UNMC has been continuously accredited by the Higher Learning Commission since 1913.
Find resources for following state and national proposals, advocating for UNMC and Joining the UNMC Delegates program.
UNMC offers the full range of academic health sciences programs through its 6 colleges, 2 degree-granting institutes and Graduate Studies.
With a goal to educate physicians in a high quality environment, we offer nearly 70 residency and fellowship programs and train more than 600 house officers.
UNMC continuing education is raising the skill level and knowledge among Nebraska's health care professionals, improving patient outcomes and community health.
Our pathway programs for high school and undergraduate students offer the opportunity to work toward health care careers.
The University of Nebraska Medical Center offers six colleges, two degree-granting institutes and graduate studies.
With nearly 40 academic departments UNMC and its experienced faculty are committed to training the best and brightest health care professionals.
The modern and renovated Leon S. McGoogan Health Sciences Library offers light-filled spaces and deep information resources. 
Our online certificate, bachelor's, master's or doctoral programs enable health care professionals to earn advanced degrees while continuing to work.
UNMC values well-rounded individuals, and our admissions team reviews your application carefully. We offer a variety of financial aid options.
There's more to life at UNMC than the academic experience. Whether you want to socialize, exercise or become a leader — we've got you covered.
Our calendar includes dates and events for our 6 colleges and Graduate Studies.
At UNMC, next-generation technology is moving students and faculty from the classroom to an experiential environment.
The Office of Academic Affairs is responsible for enriching the academic experiences of students and faculty at UNMC.
There's more to life at UNMC than the academic experience. Whether you want to socialize, exercise or become a leader — we've got you covered.
The catalog provides curricular requirements, course descriptions, policies and current information for the academic year. 
Learn about clinical trials, and how you can participate, through the University of Nebraska Medical Center.
The Nebraska Biobank is speeding research through the use of leftover blood samples from patients who choose to take part.
Support the research conducted at UNMC to help those who have cancer, heart disease, Parkinson’s, Alzheimer's and other diseases.
UNMC's Distinguished Scientists are the best and brightest from all over the world, working to discover treatments and cures for life-threatening diseases
The Office of Vice Chancellor for Research (VCR) provides resources for researchers.
UNMC faculty provide the best care for people from all over Nebraska, thanks to strong partnerships with hospitals and other clinical organizations.
Our Health Sciences Library offers services to help Nebraska residents or patients receiving health care in Nebraska research health questions and topics.
Learn about clinical trials, and how you can participate, through the University of Nebraska Medical Center.
How medical information about you may be used and how to get access to this information.
The privacy and security of health information is protected under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act.
University of Nebraska news archives
Connect magazine and UNMC Today display UNMC's global impact through writing, photography and design. 
Stay updated on a range of topics at UNMC through our blogs.
The Department of Strategic Communications works to tell the story of UNMC's impact on Nebraska and the world. 
Need a source for a deadline story? Seeking b-roll or photographs of our newsmakers? Want to connect on social? Our team can help.
University of Nebraska news releases
Our press kits provide a single stop for media seeking digital assets related to major events at UNMC.
University of Nebraska Medical Center In The News
Search our calendar for virtual and in-person UNMC events.
Planning a wedding or a conference? Host your next event at the Dr. Stanley M. and Dorothy Truhlsen Campus Events Center.
As the only public academic health science center in the state, so we embrace the responsibility to reach out across Nebraska and beyond.
Maria Langworthy, PhD
Maria Langworthy, PhD, sees the promise of generative AI on student learning and well-being, while also being aware of potential perils.
​“There are a lot of risks and a lot of opportunities with generative AI,” said Dr. Langworthy, a global education thought leader and cofounder and managing partner of CampusEvolve.
On Tuesday, Dr. Langworthy shared her thoughts on generative artificial intelligence with faculty, staff and students during UNMC’s Breakthrough Thinking Conference series, which is designed to challenge and inspire out-of-the-box thinking.
Dr. Langworthy also was joined briefly online by UNMC’s Dele Davies, MD, Emily Glenn and Rachel Lookadoo, JD, each of whom reflected on her comments. Glenn and Lookadoo lead a UNMC AI task force charged with developing a framework for UNMC’s AI guided future.
While the pandemic accelerated the use of technology and forced changes in education, Dr. Langworthy said Chat GPT and Open AI sparked the technical acceleration of these opportunities, which is then driving faster adoption in education. “It’s up to all of us to research and examine how we take advantage and how we mitigate the risks,” she said.
Watch the Breakthrough Thinking presentation with Maria Langworthy online.
Dr. Langworthy explained how “vanilla” GPT (generative pretrained transformer) models allow for general prompts and responses, while generative AI allows for localized content to be pulled into the solution. Highlighting the latter, she demonstrated online how universities can provide university-specific content for such questions as “how do I find career planning help?”
“If you want to get results, you have to clearly define your use case,” said Dr. Langworthy, who, prior to founding CampusEvolve, served as director of worldwide education research at Microsoft, where she led the open education analytics community. She also served as the strategic data officer for education at the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.
In education, one use case might be to support advisers with a one-stop advising generative AI, she said, which would allow for personalized student answers across all student services. As a result, students could ask more questions more frequently, while boosting their confidence, motivation and sense of belonging. In turn, advisers would have greater capacity to focus on building personal relationships with students, she said.
Other use cases might relate to admissions and registration, access and academic success. “Generative AI is of most use to advisers and students when it’s grounded in your own data and content,” she said, and includes testing and training with one’s staff. Guardrails can be specified for specific prompts and responses, she said, that anonymize student information, mitigate risks and are monitored by humans.
There are benefits and distinctions to machine intelligence, just as there are with human intelligence, Dr. Langworthy said, highlighting four key points:
“I’m at the early stages of understanding how all of this can be used, as are all of us,” she said, emphasizing that greater success will come if “we can have clearly defined use cases carried out in an intentional manner.”
Share
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment * 
Name * 
Email * 
 Save my name and email in this browser for the next time I comment.
 



Δ
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
 ©  2024 University of Nebraska Medical Center
