University of Texas at Arlington official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://resources.uta.edu/research/policies-and-procedures/generative-artificial-intelligence.php

The use of Generative Artificial Intelligence (GAI) can be a powerful tool for helping members of the UTA research community be more effective, productive, and innovative in their work. At the same time, GAI can be used in a way that may result in unintended negative consequences or that are inappropriate to current academic norms. Uses of GAI in research may involve proposal preparation, progress reports, data/statistical analysis, graphic generation, etc.  Many standards, regulations, and policies are being contemplated or actively developed at federal, state, or institutional levels as the use and impact of GAI evolves. This notice is to share some recent federal actions involving GAI in research along with general principles to consider in its use.
 
The National Science Foundation recently announced in its “Notice to Research Community:  Use of Generative Artificial Intelligence Technology in the NSF Merit Review Process” that NSF reviewers are prohibited from uploading any proposal content or review records to non-approved GAI tools (they must be behind NSF’s firewall) out of concern for potential violations of confidentiality and integrity principles of the merit review process. Use of GAI in NSF proposals should be indicated in the project description. Specifically, it states: "Proposers are responsible for the accuracy and authenticity of their proposal submission in consideration for merit review, including content developed with the assistance of generative AI tools. NSF's Proposal and Award Policies and Procedures Guide (PAPPG) addresses research misconduct, which includes fabrication, falsification, or plagiarism in proposing or performing NSF-funded research, or in reporting results funded by NSF. Generative AI tools may create these risks, and proposers and awardees are responsible for ensuring the integrity of their proposal and reporting of research results.”
NIH has issued a Notice: The Use of Generative Artificial Intelligence Technologies is Prohibited for NIH Peer Review Process along with a set of FAQs for the Use of Generative AI in Peer Review. Although NIH specifically prohibits GAI in the peer review process, they do not prohibit the use of GAI in grant proposals. They state an author assumes the risk of using an AI tool to help write an application, noting “[…] when we receive a grant application, it is our understanding that it is the original idea proposed by the institution and their affiliated research team.” If AI generated text includes plagiarism, fabricated citations or falsified information, the NIH “will take appropriate actions to address the non-compliance.”
GAI should not be listed as a co-author, but the use of Generative AI should be disclosed in papers, along with a description of the places and manners of use. Typically, such disclosures will be in a “Methods” section of the paper. See the Committee on Publication Ethics’ Authorship and AI tools webpage for more information. If you rely on GAI output, you should cite it. Good citation style recommendations have been suggested by the American Psychological Association (APA) and the Chicago Manual of Style.
Guiding Principles: 
GAI is a Technology Tool
Privacy, Security, and Rules Apply to GAI Tools
Research Administration202 E. Border Street, Suite 216 • Box 19145 • Arlington, TX 76019-0145 
This is the faculty/staff resources website for Research. Click the link below to visit their main website.
Please visit these links for specific questions about:
