University of Nebraska - Omaha official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://catalog.unomaha.edu/graduate/degree-programs-certificates-minors/computer-science/artificial-intelligence-certificate/
Department of Computer Science, College of Information Science & Technology
The objective of the certificate in artificial intelligence is to expose students to the principles and technologies used to embody machines with human-like intelligent capabilities and to enable the machines to assist humans in performing complex and hazardous tasks.  Students completing this certificate program have an opportunity to learn as well as perform hands-on experiments in different areas of artificial intelligence, including automated software systems such as software agents, multi-agent and multi-robot systems, machine vision and image processing technologies, neural network-based adaptive software systems, heuristics and stochastic optimization techniques for critical decision making, and machine learning and knowledge engineering techniques that embed intelligence in computers and information systems. 
Myoungkyu Song, PhD, Graduate Program Chair (GPC)
173C Peter Kiewit Institute (PKI) 
402.554.2077
myoungkyu@unomaha.edu
Emily Wiemers, Graduate Advisor
170 Peter Kiewit Institute (PKI)
402.554.3819
ewiemers@unomaha.edu
General Application Requirements and Admission Criteria
English Language Proficiency: Applicants are required to have a command of oral and written English. Those who do not hold a baccalaureate or other advanced degree from the United States, OR a baccalaureate or other advanced degree from a predetermined country on the waiver list, must meet the minimum language proficiency score requirement in order to be considered for admission.
Internet-based TOEFL: 80, IELTS: 6.5, PTE: 53, Duolingo: 110
Students who have not taken an undergraduate data structures course with a grade of “B-" or better must do so before they will be allowed to continue in the program.
During what is expected to be the semester the certificate is completed and prior to the posted deadline, students should apply for the certificate through MavLINK on or before the deadline. Information can be found here. If you complete the application form and do not complete all of the requirements for the certificate, contact the Office of Graduate Studies as soon as possible. You must reapply during the next semester in which you expect to complete the certificate; no additional fee is charged to reactivate your application.
The following requirements are due 12 working days prior to commencement:
For students currently enrolled in courses that are a part of their plan of study, enrollment must be maintained in order to complete the certificate. A grade for any current enrollment must be received by the Registrar's Office no later than the close of business on the fifteenth working day following the end of a semester.
The Office of Graduate Studies will mail the certificate to students when all requirements are completed and all obligations to the university are satisfied. The Graduate College will not approve any changes in the student's permanent record once the certificate is awarded.

			University of Nebraska Omaha, 6001 Dodge Street, Omaha, NE 68182
			© 2023-2024 | Emergency Information Alert | Report a Concern


Print this page.

The PDF will include all information unique to this page.
A PDF of the 2023-2024 catalog.
