University of South Carolina - Beaufort official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://sc.edu/study/colleges_schools/graduate_school/index.php
We have more nationally ranked graduate degree programs than the rest of the universities and colleges in South Carolina combined. And that's just one way we set ourselves apart.
With 230+ highly respected graduate degree programs and a vibrant community on and
                           off campus, it's no wonder that 6400+ graduate students call USC their academic home.
Application requirements, supporting materials and deadlines for all graduate school
                                    programs.
 
University of South Carolina is proud to offer more than 230 graduate degree programs
                                             and certificates. 
USC offers competitive packages that are awarded through home departments. The Graduate
                                             School also offers recruiting fellowships.
Landing a professional position in today’s market requires more than just completing
                                             a degree. To help you get started, we've outlined a list of tools, resources and professional
                                             development programs.
  
Registration is open for the annual Three Minute Thesis competition (3MT®) at the Graduate School. This unique event offers graduate students a platform to communicate their research and its significance to a non-specialist audience in just three minutes. The competition is open to all current University of South Carolina graduate students in any program. 
Scientist and USC graduate alumna, Legna Torres-García, is making waves in oceanography at the U.S. Geological Survey, where she helps coastal communities deal with danger.
We'll send you more information about a particular program or programs. 
Information Request Form
The Dissertation Writing Academy will provide guidance, instruction, motivation, and support for completing the dissertation.
Tuesday, Apr. 2, 2024
Location: See event description for more details.
Monday, Apr. 8, 2024
Location: See event description for more details.
Cost: n/a
Tuesday, Apr. 9, 2024
Location: Thomas Cooper Library L511
Cost: FREE
Wednesday, Apr. 10, 2024
Location: See event description for more details.
Cost: FREE
Thursday, Apr. 11, 2024
Location: See event description for more details.
Cost: FREE
