University of Texas at Austin official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://ctl.utexas.edu/chatgpt-and-generative-ai-tools-sample-syllabus-policy-statements
Large language model generative artificial intelligence (generative AI) tools, such as ChatGPT and others, have recently emerged and become available for wide use. While generative AI tools can offer inspiration and new possibilities, they should not be seen as unacknowledged substitutes for the content created by students in their courses.
Regarding the potential use of generative AI tools, no changes in university policy are required. It is already a violation of policy for students to represent work they did not do as their own, and work generated by an AI system that is not credited to that system falls under that policy. While there are clear limitations on the use of these tools in certain contexts at UT, instructors have the discretion to explore them in the classroom. At present, the CTL recommends that UT faculty and instructors decide whether or not these tools fit within their pedagogical aims and clearly state their course policies in a designated section of their syllabi. If adopted, students should learn how to use AI text generators (i.e., ChatGPT) and other AI tools to expand rather than impede their developing abilities as writers, coders, creators, and thinkers. Ensuring equitable access to these tools is essential, as are fair grading policies and student evaluation for both those who do and do not use AI tools in their courses.
The following suggested syllabus statements focused on generative AI tools in the classroom are culled from CTL discussions as well as openly available Web resources. Each section contains several possible ways of framing the instructor’s intent. Due to the nuance of generative AI, the categories do not stand alone, so you may find areas of overlap. To that end, these statements are intended to spur your own thinking, and so you are welcome to use, edit, or adapt any of the selections below for your own purposes. Please feel free to contact the CTL with any questions about how to craft your own statements or explore our webpage, "5 Things to Know about ChatGPT," which contains links to additional UT resources and recommendations
Note on Citation: When thinking about your options, we urge instructors to explore these tools and think carefully about how to cite content from them as well as the role of citation in student work (i.e., brainstorming possibilities, developing arguments from sources, aligning AI tool output and authorship, etc.). Considering UT-Austin's policy that "ChatGPT or similar AI Tools must not be used to generate output that would be considered non-public," it is important to consider the shareable or retrievable nature of any AI-informed work. Remind students that these tools cannot be used to create content that could be private (i.e., used for research purposes) or as their intellectual property. The following, most commonly used style guides should be useful in crafting language for your syllabi and assignments: 
 
Acknowledgments: Statement on Artificial Intelligence (AI) Tools in Art & Design Courses (College of Fine Arts, UT-Austin), Generative AI Syllabus Statement Considerations (Texas A&M University), Using Generative AI in Coursework (Faculty of Computing and Data Science, Boston University), Instructional Innovation Resources (McCombs School of Business, UT-Austin)
Perry-Castañeda Library101 E. 21st Street Rm. 3.349Mail Code: G2100Austin, TX 78712Email Us >

© The University of Texas at Austin 2024
