University of Wisconsin - River Falls official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://technology.uwrf.edu/TDClient/1979/Portal/KB/ArticleDet?ID=153833
The simulation of human intelligence in computer systems. It involves the development of algorithms and techniques that enable machines to perform tasks that typically require human intelligence, such as understanding natural language, recognizing patterns, making decisions, solving problems, and learning from experience.
ChatGPT refers to a series of AI language models developed by OpenAI, based on the GPT (Generative Pre-trained Transformer) architecture. GPT models are designed to understand and generate human-like text based on the input they receive. These models have undergone several iterations, with each iteration being more advanced than the last. They are trained on large amounts of text data to learn patterns, grammar, context, and various aspects of human language.
"ChatGPT" specifically refers to versions of the GPT model that are optimized for generating human-like conversations or dialogue. These models are fine-tuned to excel in interactive and conversational scenarios, making them useful for applications like customer support chatbots, virtual assistants, and other situations where natural language interactions are crucial.
The models in the ChatGPT series are designed to understand and generate text in a way that simulates conversation, making them capable of responding contextually to prompts and generating coherent and contextually relevant replies. They can understand and generate text in a conversational manner, allowing for more interactive and dynamic interactions with users compared to earlier versions of the GPT model.
Add text to your syllabus about how you want (or do NOT want) to incorporate ChatGPT and other generative AI into your course(s).
UWS 14.03 Academic misconduct subject to disciplinary action.
a. Seeks to claim credit for the work or efforts of another without authorization or citation;
b. Uses unauthorized materials or fabricated data in any academic exercise;
c. Forges or falsifies academic documents or records;
d. Intentionally impedes or damages the academic work of others;
e. Engages in conduct aimed at making false representation of a student's academic performance; or
f. Assists other students in any of these acts
"Our Obsession with Cheating is Ruining Our Relationship with Students," by Marc Watkins. in Rhetorica, Jan. 6, 2023
Excerpt: "AI detection isn’t going to work-but that’s not going to change our desire to have a tool to detect what work was written by a human vs. generated by an AI transformer."
Turnitin (Integrated with Canvas)- https://www.turnitin.com/solutions/ai-writing
Copyleaks- https://copyleaks.com/
Giant Language model Test Room (GLTR)- http://gltr.io/dist/index.html
GPTZero- https://gptzero.me/
Undetectable.AI- https://undetectable.ai/
ZeroGPT- https://www.zerogpt.com/

If you are unable to retrieve web content in an accessible format please contact ability.services@uwrf.edu
University of Wisconsin-River Falls · 410 S. 3rd Street, River Falls WI 54022 USA · Campus Information 715-425-3911
