University of Nevada - Las Vegas official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://www.unlv.edu/policies/students
Updated Spring 2024
Academic integrity is a legitimate concern for every member of the University community. We all share in upholding the fundamental values of honesty, trust, respect, fairness, responsibility, and professionalism. By choosing to join the UNLV community, students accept the expectations of the Student Academic Misconduct Policy, and are encouraged to always take the ethical path whenever faced with choices. Students enrolling at UNLV assume the obligation to conduct themselves in a manner compatible with UNLV’s educational mission. An example of academic misconduct is plagiarism. Plagiarism is using the words or ideas of another person, from the Internet or any other source without proper citation of the source(s). See the Student Conduct Code.
We recognize that generative AI (e.g., ChatGPT) is a rapidly changing environment that is creating both new opportunities and challenges for higher education. This page, ChatGPT: Helpful Information and Resources for Instructors, was produced by a university working group led by Vice Provost Laurel Pritchard as a guide for our campus community.
Instructors, should they choose, may integrate Generative AI thoughtfully into their teaching practices, assessments, and class discussions to foster an environment that promotes ethical and responsible use of this new technology and familiarization with its opportunities and challenges. When incorporating AI technologies into courses, instructors are encouraged to provide clear guidance to students on the proper application and limitations of these tools. Instructors may also actively engage students in discussions about the societal implications of AI, including potential biases, ethical considerations, and privacy concerns.
University anti-plagiarism resources, Turnitin and iThenticate, are evolving and adapting to help students, educators, and institutions address AI writing and challenges related to AI-generated text. Transparency and accountability are expected with the use of generative AI, just as we require appropriate citations and references for any sources used in classroom work, research, or academic writing. Improper use of generative AI is a form of academic dishonesty as outlined by the university Student Academic Misconduct Policy. We will offer workshops and share additional resources on this evolving topic in the coming academic year.
The University requires all members of the University Community to familiarize themselves with and follow copyright and fair use requirements. You are individually and solely responsible for violations of copyright and fair use laws. The University will neither protect nor defend you, nor assume any responsibility for student or employee violations of fair use laws. Violations of copyright laws could subject you to federal and state civil penalties and criminal liability, as well as disciplinary action under University policies. Additional copyright policy information is available.
All UNLV students must use their Campus-issued ACE ID and password to log in to WebCampus-Canvas. UNLV students enrolled in online or hybrid courses are expected to read and adhere to the Student Academic Misconduct Policy, which states that “acting or attempting to act as a substitute for another, or using or attempting to use a substitute, in any academic evaluation or assignment” is a form of academic misconduct. Intentionally sharing ACE login credentials with another person may be considered an attempt to use a substitute, and could result in investigation and sanctions, as outlined in the Student Academic Misconduct Policy. UNLV students enrolled in online courses are also expected to read and adhere to the Acceptable Use of Computing and Information Technology Resources Policy, which prohibits sharing university accounts with other persons without authorization. To the greatest extent possible, all graded assignments and assessments in UNLV online courses should be hosted in WebCampus-Canvas or another UNLV-managed platform that requires ACE login credentials for access.
Rebelmail is UNLV’s official email system for students and by University policy instructors and staff should only send emails to students’ Rebelmail accounts. Rebelmail is one of the primary ways students receive official University communications, information about deadlines, major Campus events, and announcements. All UNLV students receive a Rebelmail account after they have been admitted to the University. Students’ email prefixes are listed on class rosters. The suffix is always @unlv.nevada.edu. Emailing within Web Campus-Canvas is also acceptable.
Auditing a course allows a student to continue attending the lectures and/or laboratories and discussion sessions associated with the course, but the student will not earn a grade for any component of the course. Students who audit a course receive the same educational experience as students taking the course for a grade, but will be excused from exams, assessments, and other evaluative measures that serve the primary purpose of assigning a grade.
The University requires that final exams given at the end of a course occur on the date and at the time specified in the Final Exam schedule. The general schedule is typically available at the start of the semester, and the classroom locations are available approximately one month before the end of the semester. For the Summer semester, it is left to the discretion of the instructor to administer the Final Exam during already scheduled course times and classroom locations, to be no later than the final scheduled date for the course. See the Final Exam Schedule.
The grade of “I” (Incomplete) may be granted when a student has satisfactorily completed three-fourths of course work for that semester/session, but cannot complete the last part of the course for reasons beyond the student’s control and acceptable to the instructor, and the instructor believes that the student can finish the course without repeating it. For undergraduate courses, the incomplete work must be made up before the end of the following regular semester. Graduate students receiving “I” grades in 500-, 600-, or 700-level courses have up to one calendar year to complete the work, at the discretion of the instructor. If course requirements are not completed within the period indicated, a grade of “F” will be recorded, and the student’s GPA will be adjusted accordingly. Students who are fulfilling an Incomplete grade do not re-register for the course. It is expected that they will make individual arrangements to complete all course requirements with the instructor who assigned the “I” grade.
Any student missing class, quizzes, examinations, or any other class or laboratory work because of observance of religious holidays will be given an opportunity during that semester to make up the missed work. The make-up opportunity will apply to the religious holiday absence only. It is the responsibility of the student to notify the instructor within the first 7 calendar days of the course for Summer courses, and of their intention to participate in religious holidays which do not fall on state holidays or periods of class recess. For additional information, please visit the Missed Classwork policy, under Registration Policies, on the Academic Policies webpage.
In accordance with the policy approved by the Faculty Senate regarding missed class time and assignments, students who represent UNLV in any official extracurricular activity will also have the opportunity to make up assignments, provided that the student submits official written notification to the instructor no less than one week prior to the missed class(es).
The spirit and intent of the policy for missed classwork is to offer fair and equitable assessment opportunities to all students, including those representing the University in extracurricular activities. Instructors should consider, for example, that in courses which offer a “drop one” option for the lowest assignment, quiz, or exam, assigning the student a grade of zero for an excused absence for extracurricular activity is both contrary to the intent of the Faculty Senate’s policy, and an infringement on the student’s right to complete all work for the course.
This policy will not apply in the event that completing the assignment or administering the examination at an alternate time would impose an undue hardship on the instructor or the University that could be reasonably avoided. There should be a good faith effort by both the instructor and the student to agree to a reasonable resolution. When disagreements regarding this policy arise, decisions can be appealed to the Department Chair/School Director, College/School Dean, and/or the Faculty Senate Academic Standards Committee.
For purposes of definition, extracurricular activities may include, but are not limited to: academic recruitment activities, competitive intercollegiate athletics, fine arts activities, liberal arts competitions, science and engineering competitions, and any other event or activity sanctioned by a College/School Dean, and/or by the Executive Vice President and Provost.
Students have a responsibility to conduct themselves in class and in the libraries in ways that do not interfere with the rights of other students to learn, or of instructors to teach. Use of devices such as cellular phones and pagers, or other potentially disruptive activities are only permitted with the prior explicit consent of the instructor.
Students are specifically prohibited to record classes without instructor authorization, including online/remote classes (either audio only, or video and audio). The instructor may rescind permission at any time during the class. If a student does not comply with established requirements or obstructs the functioning of the class, the instructor may initiate an administrative withdrawal of the student from the course.
Since the COVID-19 pandemic forced some instruction to be delivered remotely starting in Spring 2020, numerous students have asked instructors to record their synchronous classes, so that they can access them at their convenience. Instructors who agree to record their classes (audio only, or video and audio) should inform students in advance. Recorded lectures may not be broadly released to anyone, but made available exclusively to those students enrolled in the class during the particular academic term. Recorded lectures must be stored securely, and are subject to the Nevada System of Higher Education’s Records Retention Policy, meaning that the recordings can only be deleted 120 days after the end of class (i.e., after grades are posted). Once this requirement is met, the recordings should be deleted. Class recordings are protected from disclosure, as they are deemed part of an educational record under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA).
As an institution of higher learning, UNLV represents a rich diversity of human beings among its faculty, staff, and students, and is committed to cultivating a campus environment that values diversity, practices inclusion, and actively promotes equitable experiences and outcomes. Accordingly, the University supports understanding and appreciation of all members of its community, regardless of race, sex, age, color, national origin, ethnicity, creed, religion, disability, sexual orientation, gender, gender identity, marital status, pregnancy, genetic information, veteran status, or political affiliation. Please see University Statements and Compliance and find more information on our UNLV MSI website.
A successful learning experience requires mutual respect and trust between the students and the instructor. Accordingly, the instructor asks that students be willing to listen to one another’s points of view, acknowledging that there may be disagreements, keep discussion and comments on topic, and use first person, positive language when expressing their perspectives.
UNLV is committed to providing an environment free of all forms of unlawful discrimination including sexual and gender-based discrimination, harassment, and violence like sexual assault, intimate partner violence, and stalking. If you, or someone you know, has experienced or is experiencing these types of behaviors, know that you are not alone. Resources and support are available. To learn more or to report an incident, please visit the Office of Equal Employment and Title IX website. Please be aware that as an instructor, I am not a confidential resource, and I will need to report incidents of sexual misconduct to UNLV’s Title IX Coordinator. You can also report concerns directly using the online reporting form or via email at titleixcoordinator@unlv.edu or 702-895-4055. For confidential support in matters of sexual violence, relationship/family violence, or stalking, contact the Care Center at 702-895-0602.
UNLV is situated on the traditional homelands of Indigenous groups, including the Nuwu or Nuwuvi, Southern Paiute People, descendants of the Tudinu, or Desert People. We honor and offer gratitude for those who have stewarded the land, for the land itself, and for the opportunity to cultivate a thriving, diverse, inclusive, and just scholarly community here today that works for a better tomorrow for all. You may find the full UNLV Land Acknowledgement and related information on the UNLV Land Acknowledgement page.
The UNLV Disability Resource Center (Campus Resource Center (CRC), across Harmon from the Lied Library, 702-895-0866) provides resources for students with disabilities. Students who believe that they may need academic accommodations due to a permanent disability, temporary or permanent medical need, or academic support due to pregnancy are encouraged to contact the DRC as early as possible in the academic term. A Disabilities Specialist will discuss what options may be available to you. Students who are already registered with the DRC should request their accommodations online each semester, and make an appointment to discuss their accommodations with their instructors.
Librarians are available to consult with students on research needs, including developing research topics, finding information, and evaluating sources. To make an appointment with a subject expert for this class, please visit the Libraries’ Research Consultation website. You can also ask the library staff questions via chat and text message.
Students are encouraged to make use of their free access to national newspaper subscriptions. All active students have a complimentary membership to the Wall Street Journal and New York Times. Using UNLV’s WSJ partnership link, you gain unlimited digital access to WSJ.com and WSJ apps. Membership lasts for one year and can be re-activated until graduation. For additional information, visit the UNLV Library Guide for WSJ. Students also have access to The New York Times online, The New York Times Book Review, and The New York Times Magazine. You can claim your free membership by going to Access NYT and selecting the University of Nevada, Las Vegas from the dropdown menu. You will have access until December 31st of your graduation year. For additional information, visit the UNLV Library Guide for NYT.
Embarking on your college journey at UNLV is an exciting and transformative experience, but it can also be challenging or even overwhelming. That's why we've created the Student Resource Guide – your ultimate companion for navigating the challenges and opportunities that come with higher education. 
Inside the Student Resource Guide, you'll find information and resources that cover every aspect of college life. From resources that support your academic success and career readiness to resources to maintain your mental health and learn about ways to access a variety of campus emergency support services. Our aim is to empower you and to provide you with the tools that you need to succeed and thrive both academically and personally during your college experience.
The Academic Success Center (ASC), at the Claude I. Howard Building, provides tutoring, academic success coaching, and other academic assistance for all UNLV undergraduate students. For information regarding tutoring subjects, tutoring times, and other ASC programs and services, please visit the ASC website, or call 702-895-3177. The ASC is located across from the Student Services Complex (SSC). Academic success coaching is located on the second floor of SSC A, Room 254. Drop-in tutoring is located on the second floor of the Lied Library, and on the second floor of the College of Engineering building (TBE A 207).
The Writing Center offers one-on-one or small group assistance with writing free of charge to UNLV students. We offer in-person consultations, as well as synchronous and asynchronous online consultations. Walk-in consultations are available at the Writing Center, but students with appointments receive priority assistance. Students may ask Quick Questions about writing and schedule appointments online, in person, or by calling 702-895-3908. Learn more and find a variety of writing handouts and resources on the Writing Center's website. The Writing Center is located at the Campus Resources Center, Room 216 (CRC 216).
In addition to campus resources such as the Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) website, visiting the YOU@UNLV website, you may now call or text 988 or chat online if you or someone you know is in crisis and in need of support.
There are a number of mental health resources and counseling services offered by the community and UNLV as we move forward in the Spring semester. You are encouraged to fill out the Student Support Form to get connected to UNLV’s many student support resources. Student Counseling & Psychological Services (CAPS) also offers a wide range of services to the campus community. You can reach them at 702-895-3627 to schedule an appointment. The RebelSAFE app and alert messages provide emergency information and instructions to protect yourself during an emergency. To ensure you receive immediate alerts about campus emergencies, update your contact information to receive notifications via text and voicemail on your cell phone. Please continue to check in at UNLV Strong for regular updates to campus operations, campus resources, and other information.
