University of Colorado at Boulder official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://www.colorado.edu/studentaffairs/2023/09/29/ai-and-honor-code-3-things-all-students-should-know

Skip to Content

Over the last year, AI tools have become more prevalent and a focus of conversation in academic and professional settings. As a student, you may wonder when and how to use AI tools like ChatGPT and Google Bard without risking an Honor Code violation. Students, faculty and staff will need to continually adjust as AI tools evolve and become a part of our everyday lives. 
CU Boulder does not have a policy on AI in the curriculum because there is no one-size-fits-all approach for using AI tools on our campus. The goal is to empower students to use the appropriate innovative tools to be successful in their fields. 
The guidelines around AI use allow faculty and instructors to determine how and when students can use AI for coursework. However, you are responsible for working with your professors to understand their guidelines and clarify questions before using AI for coursework. 
All students enrolled in a CU Boulder course are responsible for knowing and adhering to the Honor Code. The unapproved use of artificial intelligence could lead to a student gaining an unfair academic advantage, which is considered academic misconduct and could violate the Honor Code. Another potential violation of the Honor Code is plagiarism, which includes using paper writing services and technology, such as essay bots and other AI, whether paid or unpaid. 
Make sure you ask your instructor if you have any questions about the expectations in the course. This information may differ for each class, and asking for clarification can help you avoid making mistakes. 
Student Conduct and Conflict Resolution (SCCR) recognizes that artificial intelligence can be used in unique and appropriate ways in education. SCCR encourages students to ask about standards and expectations specific to their course.  
However, the bottom line is to ensure you know how each professor allows students to incorporate AI tools into the course. If you are uncertain, ask before you use AI. 
Students who use AI in coursework outside of the standards for the course may face an Honor Code violation. Students who are found responsible for violating the Honor Code may be subject to resolution outcomes, which are intended to help you reflect, learn and grow in your academic journey. You can find examples on the Resolution Outcomes webpage. Each Honor Code violation is determined on a case-by-case basis. Your professors and instructors retain the sole authority to determine appropriate academic outcomes. 
Students can access campus resources to find academic and other support.
ASAP links all first-year students and students living on campus to study resources and free peer tutoring. 
ASAP also offers the Lending Library, allowing students to check out books for many general education and lower division classes.
The Student Academic Success Center is a multicultural academic learning community serving low-income and first-generation college students with academic skills development, math and writing courses, supplementary instruction in gateway courses, tutoring, pre-collegiate opportunities and graduate research opportunities. 
The CU Boulder Writing Center is a free academic support service that offers writers from all academic disciplines and skill levels the opportunity to work one-on-one with professionally trained writing consultants.
Need help managing stress, creating a study routine or preparing for exams? Meet one-on-one with a trained peer wellness coach to learn effective strategies and connect with campus resources. Coaching sessions are free and open to all CU Boulder students. 
If you’re planning to use testing accommodations through Disability Services, make sure you’re on the same page as your instructors about how they’ll be administered. Your dedicated access coordinator can help answer any additional questions or concerns. 
CAPS provides mental health support for all CU Boulder students, including mental health screenings, drop-in hours, brief individual therapy, group therapy, workshops and crisis support. 
SLS helps students resolve or minimize their legal situations so they can focus on school. High-quality legal services are available for a fraction of the cost of a private attorney to all CU Boulder students who pay student activity fees. 
SSCM connects students with campus partners, community resources and support systems to encourage success through individualized planning.
ISSS offers international students and scholars services to advise, support, engage and advocate for our international community.
Center for Community, Suite S430
	2249 Willard Loop Drive, Boulder, CO 80309
	031 UCB • 303-492-9048
studentaffairs@colorado.edu
CU Boulder acknowledges that it is located on the traditional territories and ancestral homelands of the Cheyenne, Arapaho, Ute and many other Native American nations. Their forced removal from these territories has caused devastating and lasting impacts. Full CU Boulder land acknowledgment

University of Colorado Boulder© Regents of the University of Colorado
Privacy • Legal & Trademarks • Campus Map
