University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://provost.unc.edu/generative-ai-usage-guidance-for-the-research-community/
Return to Employee Resource page.
As you are likely aware, the use of generative AI tools such as ChatGPT has sparked numerous inquiries related to research and scholarly practices. To address these and other emerging concerns, the Provost and Deans established the UNC Generative AI Committee, with representatives from every academic unit.
The Committee has developed the following guidance for research and scholarly applications of generative AI. This guidance applies to all members of the research community, including faculty, staff (SHRA and EHRA non-faculty), students (undergraduate, graduate and professional), guest researchers (e.g., unpaid volunteers, interns, and visiting scholars), collaborators, and consultants involved in research occurring under the auspices of the University. This guidance aims to establish a framework for the ethical and responsible employment of AI tools in research and scholarship.
Please review this guidance and integrate it into your research and scholarly practices, tailoring it as necessary to suit your specific discipline and accepted research and scholarly practices within your discipline. Mentors and supervisors should have regular conversations with mentees and other research trainees about the intended use of generative AI in their research programs.
Given the rapid pace of advancements in generative AI, we anticipate this guidance to continue to evolve. Thus, if you have any questions or feedback, please do not hesitate to reach out to Eric Everett (Phone: 919-962-0988 or email: eric_everett@unc.edu).
Generative AI (Artificial Intelligence) systems such as ChatGPT have emerged from a number of technologies including machine learning and are capable of creating images, text, and other products in response to queries and “prompts.” As a result, generative AI has become a powerful tool for research and scholarship. Systems like ChatGPT can be task-specific and are capable of evolving as information is provided from users and other sources.
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill policy is that its research be carried out with the highest standards of integrity and ethical behavior. To that end, everyone involved in conducting research under the auspices of the University is responsible for ensuring that they use best practices in proposing, performing, and reviewing research, as well as in reporting research results. Authors are ultimately responsible and accountable for the content and methodology of their published and disseminated work.
Lead Principal Investigators and other key personnel involved in the preparation of grant applications submitted through the University’s Research Administration Management System & eSubmission (RAMSeS) certify the submissions before the grants are sent to sponsors. This entails certifying the following:
Different disciplines, PIs, units and departments may or may not have established authorship guidelines. However, guidelines exist in journals, e.g., Plos authorship guidance, Nature Portfolio authorship guidance, and in professional organizations, e.g., APA and the ICMJE.
Authors in general are required to meet multiple criteria including accountability, responsibility and providing approval of the work to be published. The likelihood of generative AI systems, i.e., ChatGPT to fulfill the requirements to be an author is low. Elsevier’s authorship policy has taken the position that generative AI and AI-assisted technologies cannot be an author on a published work. Similar positions prohibiting generative AI tools, i.e., ChatGPT being listed as an author on a paper are provided by the Committee on Publication Ethics (COPE), World Association of Medical Editors (WAME ), Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA Network ) and Science Journals as examples.
Yes, although there are no assurances that iThenticate screening will be fool proof. First you can access iThenticate. All researchers at UNC can use their Onyen log to create a personal workspace.
Use of generative AI information may require proper citation depending on context and how the tool is used. Examples of how to cite ChatGPT:
Return to Employee Resource page.
© 2017 The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
