University of New Orleans official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://www.uno.edu/cti/teaching-learning
Hamburger Aux Menu
Hamburger Menu
The Center for Teaching Innovation supports faculty and staff in the use of digital tools (such as Canvas, Panopto, and Zoom) to design and deliver online, hybrid and classroom instruction. 
In addition, we will assist in integrating content from publisher course cartridges and websites, where possible.
We have three options for proctoring online exams, which are explained on the Teaching Tools page. Check out our quick reference chart to our three online proctoring options - Respondus, ProctorU Review+, and ProctorU Live+.
However, There are often problems with online assessments. 
For these reasons, during this time we recommend using alternatives to timed, proctored exams wherever possible. Large courses reliant on in-person exams should consider open-book exams or frequent low-stakes assessments as alternative assessment strategies that are relatively easy to grade.


Canvas provides user training courses for both faculty and students. You are automatically enrolled in these courses. Faculty should look for Growing with Canvas in their Canvas course list. They can direct their students to look for Passport to Canvas to help familiarize students with how to use Canvas.
In addition, the CTI hosts trainings and workshops and has numerous resources for faculty on our Canvas resources webpage. Faculty can point students to UNO's Online Learning website for further help.
If you need to cross-list a course that should be combined in Webstar, please contact the registrar. 
If you need to cross-list a course that should not be combined in Webstar, please contact the CTI.
You need to use our integrated video streaming server, Panopto.
Follow Panopto's Embedding a Panopto Video in Canvas instructions.
If you need help with Panopto, please look at our Panopto information on our Teaching Tools page.
UNO Virtual Desktop is a remote desktop that provides the UNO community with secure access to a virtual Windows environment. Through the Virtual Desktop, you and your students can use UNO licensed software and systems. You will also notice that the systems and software available are targeted to you based on your role at the university and, for students, class schedules.
These videos are recordings of our Wednesday Workshop series. They are not intended to be stand-alone training.

UNO has adopted a policy on the use of AI in the classroom, which is outlined in the Student Code of Conduct. The policy reads, "Using any AI generated content (such as that generated by language models like ChatGPT) must be authorized specifically and correctly attributed."

For those looking for a breakdown of style guides citation suggestions for generative AI, Scribbr's AI Citations page has compiled those resources.
The Universities of Louisiana System ran an AI Intensive for Summer 2023. The recordings of this intensive and resources created through them are open to all UNO faculty. The CTI's Assistant Director, Meredith King, was part of the team running the intensive. Here are the links for those recordings:
A Faculty Learning Community (FLC) is a peer-led, cross-disciplinary group of faculty members engaged in an active, collaborative project over a defined period to provide professional development, support, and reflection around a specific pedagogical topic in theory and practice. FLC groups are typically small and are conducted over a defined time, whether that be a summer session of 6-8 weeks, a full semester or an academic year.
Hybrid-flexible (Hyflex) course design allows students to participate flexibly and seamlessly among face-to-face, online, synchronous and asynchronous course delivery modes to complete their learning activities in a class. In this FLC, participants will explore every part of a course, from design to delivery, and work collaboratively to research and discuss how their disciplines can create spaces and design courses to allow for student access and success. Participants will share their findings with their peers and across the UNO faculty community.
Inclusive teaching is a set of pedagogical constructs that ask instructors to make their practice intentionally and actively inclusive of the needs of all learners. Rather than inclusivity and diversity being met as a by-product, inclusive teaching asks instructors to explore inclusivity as every part of the course, from design to delivery. The Summer 2022 Inclusive Teaching FLC members collaboratively researched and discussed topics within inclusive teaching. Here, they share their knowledge of best practices with the UNO faculty community through a curated reading list and annotated bibliography. For full access to the Summer 2022 FLC's recorded meetings and discussions, please contact the CTI.
