University of Southern Queensland official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://policy.usq.edu.au/documents/14727PL
To establish the processes for managing Academic Misconduct in Courses and Coursework programs.
This procedure applies to the management of Academic Misconduct in a Course or Coursework Program and to the management of Academic Misconduct in the coursework       components of Higher Degrees by Research.
These procedures do not apply to the research components of Higher Degree by Research (HDR) programs. In cases of Research Misconduct, refer to the Research Code of       Conduct: Management of Potential Breaches Procedure. In cases of Staff Academic Misconduct refer to Code of Conduct Policy.
These procedures relate to the University's responses to any allegations of Student Academic Misconduct in a Course and Coursework.
Academic Misconduct includes but is not limited to Plagiarism, Collusion, Cheating and Contract Cheating, Impersonation, Misrepresentation and Falsification,       Self-Plagiarism and Solicitation.
The University will actively monitor breaches of Academic Integrity and penalties may be applied retrospectively in circumstances where a breach is identified after       completion of a course.
All Students undertaking a Course or Coursework Program must successfully complete Academic Integrity training modules before the end of their first Study Period. The       modules will be available through the University's Learning Management System (StudyDesk).
Failure to meet this requirement will result in the withholding of a Student's Grades until the training is complete.
Any person with a genuine, reasonable suspicion that someone internal or external to the University may be or have been involved in a breach of Academic Integrity are       encouraged to inform the University as soon as possible. Students can report the matter to their Course Coordinators or lodge a formal Complaint, as set out in the Student Grievance Resolution       Procedure.
The Academic Integrity Officer, in collaboration with the relevant Academic Integrity Unit, will investigate the matter based on the information provided and decide       whether further action is needed.
When an Employee has reason to suspect Academic Misconduct, that person must inform the relevant Course Coordinator as soon as practicable. The report of suspected       Academic Misconduct can be made via the online reporting system and all available supporting evidence must be provided at that time.
The University has available a range of tools to assist in the identification of possible cases of Plagiarism and Collusion. Reports generated by software tools must be       examined thoroughly in context, and the academic judgement of the Employee is relied upon to determine whether or not material is plagiarised, or Collusion has occurred.
A Course Coordinator who receives a report or identifies suspected Academic Misconduct, must make a preliminary analysis as soon as possible to determine if       either:
As part of the preliminary analysis, the Course Coordinator:
A Course Coordinator who determines there is sufficient evidence that the matter should be investigated must report this to the Academic Integrity Officer and the       Academic Integrity Unit. All relevant details should be provided, such as relevant assignments, system reports and/or Contract Cheating allegation reports.
In situations where cases are pending at the time of Grade finalisation, the Course Coordinator is responsible for setting the Student's Grade to Result Unavailable (RN)       until the investigation has been completed and any relevant penalty is known.
The Assessment Support Team sends all exam incidents to the Course Coordinator for initial review and will also report concerns to the Head of School.
All alleged breaches will be investigated according to the principles of Procedural Fairness, as quickly as possible by School Academic Integrity Officers, in       collaboration with the Academic Integrity Unity.
Depending on the nature and complexity of the case, the time taken to properly gather the relevant information and to decide a case will vary. The Academic Integrity Unit       may deem it necessary to conduct a pre-interview with the Student as part of the information gathering process. Investigations into alleged Academic Misconduct, such as Contract Cheating, can       take longer than, for example, a case of alleged Plagiarism or Cheating in an exam.
If the investigation confirms sufficient evidence to advance an allegation, the Academic Integrity Unit will refer the case, with all relevant supporting documentation       and evidence, to the relevant Head of School.
The Student will be sent a Notice of allegation by the Associate Director of the Academic Integrity Unit which includes:
If a Student is unable to access a suitable support person to attend the interview, they may request a five (5) day extension at any time up to one University Business       Day prior to the scheduled date of the interview.
If the indicative timeframe for investigating the case is not met, the Academic Integrity Unit will update Students on the status of the case and expected       timelines.
The available evidence and any response from the Student will be considered by the Head of School in reaching a final Decision regarding the allegation, which will be       that the breach is:
Some Students who engage in Academic Misconduct do so because of inadequate study skills and a lack of familiarity with academic writing conventions.
In response to incidences of misconduct in the early years of study, the University provides for an educative response. These incidences of misconduct include:
All other instances of Academic Misconduct in a Course or Coursework Program are regarded as Category 2 breaches.
In determining the penalty/ies to apply, the Head of School will consider a number of factors including, but not limited to:
In cases of alleged Academic Misconduct that are sufficiently serious to potentially result in a Student's suspension or expulsion, the Head of School may recommend to       the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic Affairs) formation of a three-person panel to determine the outcome.
Panel members will be the Head of School, another equivalent manager with appropriate expertise and independence to decide cases of alleged Academic Misconduct and a       Student representative. At least one panel member must be from a different school, college or division than the Head of School. Once the panel is formed, it becomes the case       decision-maker.
Where a case of Academic Misconduct is substantiated, any remedial actions that are required to be taken by a Student must have an educational component and be designed       for the purpose of preventing further Academic Misconduct by the particular Student.
In particular, where Students are in their first four Units of study, Heads of School should use the instance of a Category 1 Academic Integrity breach as an opportunity       to encourage Students to increase their academic skills through participation in training and support services. The Head of School may require the Student to attend a session with an Academic       Skills Adviser or to participate in a tutorial or online tutorial about Plagiarism and referencing.
Students may be required to show evidence of having undertaken the educational remedial action and be given the opportunity to have this action recorded as having been       completed. Failure to meet this requirement will result in the withholding of a Student's Grades until the educational remedial action is complete.
If the Head of School's Decision is that a Category 1 incident occurred, outcomes and penalties will be applied as set out in the Academic Misconduct Penalty       Schedule.
Any marks deducted will be decided by the Head of School who will inform the Course Coordinator. The Course Coordinator will be responsible for ensuring the penalty is       applied to the Student's Grade and updated in the relevant systems.
The Academic Integrity Unit will record the Student's name and details of the Academic Integrity breach in the Academic Integrity Register as a Category 1       incident.
The Student will receive correspondence from the Head of School that will include the final Decision, the reasons for the Decision, the outcome including any penalties to       be applied and information on the Student's right to Appeal the Decision.
If the Decision is that a Category 2 breach occurred, the Head of School will make a penalty recommendation to the Associate Dean (Learning and Teaching), as set out in       the Academic Misconduct Penalty Schedule. The Associate Dean (Learning and Teaching) will determine and approve the final penalty or, where the penalty includes suspension or expulsion,       recommend approval to the appropriate authority, in accordance with section 4.7.7.
The Course Coordinator is responsible for ensuring any penalty to change the Student's Grade or mark is applied and updated in the relevant systems.
The Student's name and details of the Academic Integrity breach will be recorded in the Academic Integrity Register by the Academic Integrity Unit.
The Student will receive correspondence from the case decision-maker that will include the final Decision, the reasons for the Decision, the outcome including any penalty       to be applied subject to an internal Appeal period, and information on the Student's right to Appeal the Decision.
A Decision to initiate suspension or cancellation of an International Student's Enrolment must be implemented in accordance with Standards 9 and 10 of the National Code       2018. Any such Decision must not be implemented until after the University's internal Appeal process is completed. If the internal Appeal process upholds the Decision to suspend or cancel       Enrolment, the Student will be advised of the need to seek advice from the Department of Home Affairs regarding the impact on their visa. Any changes to the Student's Enrolment will be reported       to the Department of Home Affairs via the University's International Compliance Office.
If a Category 2 breach has occurred and the proposed penalty includes a period of suspension, all details of the case will be recorded in the online system, and the       Associate Dean (Learning and Teaching) will provide the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic Affairs) with:
Suspension periods of up to and including 12 months are approved by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic Affairs). Suspension periods of more than 12 months and up to and       including three years are approved by the Provost on the recommendation of the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic Affairs).
Readmission after a period of suspension will be approved by the Associate Dean (Learning and Teaching).
If a Category 2 breach has occurred and the proposed penalty includes permanent expulsion, all details of the case will be recorded in the online system and the Associate       Dean (Learning and Teaching) will provide the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic Affairs) with:
With no further Appeal pending, the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic Affairs) will recommend a penalty of Expulsion in writing to the Provost, including a copy of the       supporting evidence and rationale.
The Head of School may withdraw an allegation of Academic Misconduct at any stage during the process. The rationale for the withdrawal of an allegation will be recorded       in the online system.
At each stage of the process, appropriate records of all relevant documentation will be maintained via the online system including:
A Decision reached in a matter of Academic Misconduct will be recorded in the Student Academic Misconduct Register where Category 1 or 2 misconduct is the outcome and       copies of all relevant documentation maintained on the Student's record in the University's records management system.
It is recommended that Students keep a record of all material and evidence submitted in relation to an allegation of Academic Misconduct.
At least once a year, the Provost will submit a report to Academic Board through the Education Quality Committee, listing breaches by Course, category, severity, the       penalties imposed, the number that proceeded to Appeal, and including trend analysis and actions to address identified root causes.
No individual Student names or numbers will be listed in the report.
The Student Academic Misconduct Register will be used to:
Where any penalty for Academic Misconduct is imposed as provided for in the Academic Misconduct Penalty Schedule, a Student may Appeal under the provisions of the Student       Appeals Procedure provided they are able to establish grounds to do so. The Student will be informed of the right of Appeal in the correspondence advising of the imposition of a penalty.
Exemplary Academic Integrity Project (EAIP): Embedding and extending exemplary Academic Integrity Policy and support frameworks across the higher education sector (2013),       Plain English definition of Academic Integrity, Office for Learning and Teaching Strategic Commissioned Project 2012-2013, www.unisa.edu.au/EAIP.
Nil.
This procedure must be read in conjunction with its subordinate schedules as provided in the table below.
Accountable Officer
Provost
Responsible Officer
Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic Affairs)
Policy Type
University Procedure
Policy Suite
Student Academic Integrity Policy
Subordinate Schedules
Academic Misconduct Penalty Schedule
Approved Date
28/6/2023
Effective Date
28/6/2023
Review Date
22/2/2026
Relevant Legislation
Education Services for Overseas Students Act             2000
Higher Education Standards Framework (Threshold Standards)             2021
National Code of Practice for Providers of Education and Training to Overseas             Students 2018
Tertiary Education Quality and Standards Agency             Amendment (Prohibiting Academic Cheating Services) Bill 2019
Policy Exceptions
Policy Exceptions Register
Related Policies
Code of Conduct Policy
Privacy Policy
Records and Information Management Policy
Student General Conduct Policy
Student Grievance Resolution Policy
Related Procedures
Assessment Procedure
Grades Procedure
Higher Degree by Research Student Progress Procedure
Student Appeals Procedure
Student Grievance Resolution Procedure
Related forms, publications and websites
The following forms and Notices may be accessed in  SharePoint (restricted access):
State Ombudsman
Definitions
Terms defined in the Definitions Dictionary
Academic Integrity
Academic Integrity means acting with the values of honesty, trust, fairness and respect in learning, teaching and Research. It is important for Students, academics,       Researchers and all staff to act in an honest way, be responsible for their actions, and show fairness in every part of their work. Staff should be role models to Students. Academic Integrity       is important for an individual'...moreAcademic Integrity means acting with the values of honesty, trust, fairness and respect in learning, teaching and Research. It is important for Students, academics,       Researchers and all staff to act in an honest way, be responsible for their actions, and show fairness in every part of their work. Staff should be role models to Students. Academic Integrity       is important for an individual's and an institution's reputation (EAIP, 2013). 
Academic Misconduct
Academic Misconduct encompasses all behaviours, including doing as well as attempting to do, any of the acts, omissions or activities that constitute Academic       Misconduct: involving the misrepresentation of academic achievement; or     undermining the core values (honesty, trust, fairness and respect) of Academic Integrity; or     breaching Academic Integrity; whether intentional or unintenti...moreAcademic Misconduct encompasses all behaviours, including doing as well as attempting to do, any of the acts, omissions or activities that constitute Academic       Misconduct: involving the misrepresentation of academic achievement; or     undermining the core values (honesty, trust, fairness and respect) of Academic Integrity; or     breaching Academic Integrity; whether intentional or unintentional. Academic Misconduct includes, but is not limited to the following: Plagiarism and Self-Plagiarism;     using (including for Assessment or review) the work prepared by another person or software, including generative artificial intelligence, as their own without       appropriate attribution;     Collusion, such as any unauthorised collaboration in preparation or presentation of work, including knowingly allowing personal work to be copied by others;     all forms of Cheating in examinations and other Assessment tasks;     Contract Cheating;     Promoting ways to breach Academic Integrity or using University resources to support others in breaching Academic Integrity;     offering or accepting bribes (money or other favours), e.g. for Admission or for Marks/Grades; and     fabrication or falsification of information or Student identity (TEQSA Guidance Note: Academic Integrity, Version 1.2, 28 March 2019). 
Academic Year
A period of time consisting of Semesters and Study Periods that all commence in the same calendar year....moreA period of time consisting of Semesters and Study Periods that all commence in the same calendar year. 
Admission
The process of submission and assessment of applications for entry to study at the University....moreThe process of submission and assessment of applications for entry to study at the University. 
Appeal
A formal, written request made by a Student or Employee to a higher authority to have a Decision overturned....moreA formal, written request made by a Student or Employee to a higher authority to have a Decision overturned. 
Assessment
The process of evaluating the extent to which Students have achieved the Learning Outcomes of a Course....moreThe process of evaluating the extent to which Students have achieved the Learning Outcomes of a Course. 
Assessment Item
An individual Assessment task as outlined in the Assessment schedule for a Course. Assessment Items may be formal, informal, Formative or Summative in nature....moreAn individual Assessment task as outlined in the Assessment schedule for a Course. Assessment Items may be formal, informal, Formative or Summative in nature. 
Cheating
Where a Student attempts to gain an unauthorised academic advantage, or assists another Student to do so, in a way that is dishonest or unfair. Examples of Cheating may include but are not limited to: unauthorised use of information, materials, devices, sources or practices in completing academic activities;     failing to comply with examination or Assessment rules or directions;     impersonatio...moreWhere a Student attempts to gain an unauthorised academic advantage, or assists another Student to do so, in a way that is dishonest or unfair. Examples of Cheating may include but are not limited to: unauthorised use of information, materials, devices, sources or practices in completing academic activities;     failing to comply with examination or Assessment rules or directions;     impersonation of a Student or University Employee or allowing oneself to be impersonated in order to gain an unauthorised academic advantage relative to other       Students;     uploading or downloading Assessment material through a third party platform;     unauthorised exchange or sharing of Assessment material with another Student. 
Collusion
Where a piece of work is produced, in whole or in part, by working closely with one or more individuals or in a group but is presented as if it were the Student's own       work. Examples of Collusion may include but are not limited to: working through an assessed task or question and writing the answers or determining the precise approach together so that submitted Assessment is very similar in  ...moreWhere a piece of work is produced, in whole or in part, by working closely with one or more individuals or in a group but is presented as if it were the Student's own       work. Examples of Collusion may include but are not limited to: working through an assessed task or question and writing the answers or determining the precise approach together so that submitted Assessment is very similar in       content, structure and style; and     sharing answers or giving access to questions and answers or completed Assessment Items or tasks. 
Complaint
A Complaint is an “expression of dissatisfaction made to or about the University, related to its products, services, staff or the handling of a complaint, where a       response or resolution is explicitly or implicitly expected or legally required”....moreA Complaint is an “expression of dissatisfaction made to or about the University, related to its products, services, staff or the handling of a complaint, where a       response or resolution is explicitly or implicitly expected or legally required”. 
Contract Cheating
When a Student engages another party, service or software, including generative artificial intelligence, whether paid or unpaid, to complete all or part of an Assessment       Item on their behalf and submits it as their own original work. It may involve a Student purchasing the assessment task from a commercial service, including internet sites, whether pre-written       or specially prepared for...moreWhen a Student engages another party, service or software, including generative artificial intelligence, whether paid or unpaid, to complete all or part of an Assessment       Item on their behalf and submits it as their own original work. It may involve a Student purchasing the assessment task from a commercial service, including internet sites, whether pre-written       or specially prepared for the Student concerned, or submitting an Assessment Item produced by a third party, including a friend, family member, fellow or former Student, or Employee of the       University. 
Course
A discrete element of a program, normally undertaken over a single Study Period, in which the Student enrols, and on completion of which the Student is awarded a       grade....moreA discrete element of a program, normally undertaken over a single Study Period, in which the Student enrols, and on completion of which the Student is awarded a       grade. 
Course Coordinator
Responsibilities of Course Coordinators include but are not limited to: Course planning, design and development     Course Specifications and alignment with Program Learning Outcomes     Assessment design, implementation and marking     Course delivery and Student learning experiences by providing Student support     leadership and guidance of teaching teams     engagement with professional and ac...moreResponsibilities of Course Coordinators include but are not limited to: Course planning, design and development     Course Specifications and alignment with Program Learning Outcomes     Assessment design, implementation and marking     Course delivery and Student learning experiences by providing Student support     leadership and guidance of teaching teams     engagement with professional and accreditation bodies     ensuring currency of disciplinary and content knowledge and expertise     reflecting on evaluations for the purpose of quality enhancement of Courses. 
Course Team
Consists of the Course Coordinator and Moderator of the Course and any other people involved with the preparation, delivery and grading of the Course....moreConsists of the Course Coordinator and Moderator of the Course and any other people involved with the preparation, delivery and grading of the Course. 
Coursework Course
A subject of study, defined by a Course Specification, for which Students may be awarded a Final Grade where the method of teaching and learning that leads to the       acquisition of skills and knowledge and does not include a major research component....moreA subject of study, defined by a Course Specification, for which Students may be awarded a Final Grade where the method of teaching and learning that leads to the       acquisition of skills and knowledge and does not include a major research component. 
Decision
A determination made by an Employee, contractor or other authorised delegate in the course of their duties on behalf of the University....moreA determination made by an Employee, contractor or other authorised delegate in the course of their duties on behalf of the University. 
Employee
A person employed by the University and whose conditions of employment are covered by the Enterprise Agreement and includes persons employed on a continuing, fixed term       or casual basis. Employees also include senior Employees whose conditions of employment are covered by a written agreement or contract with the University....moreA person employed by the University and whose conditions of employment are covered by the Enterprise Agreement and includes persons employed on a continuing, fixed term       or casual basis. Employees also include senior Employees whose conditions of employment are covered by a written agreement or contract with the University. 
Enrolment
The process of admitting Students to one or more Courses for the current Academic Year....moreThe process of admitting Students to one or more Courses for the current Academic Year. 
Expulsion
Means the permanent termination of a Student's Enrolment at the University, including the withdrawal of all rights and privileges and the right to use, enter or be within       the premises....moreMeans the permanent termination of a Student's Enrolment at the University, including the withdrawal of all rights and privileges and the right to use, enter or be within       the premises. 
Grade (noun)
A Grade is a code that indicates the status of the Assessment of Student performance against the Learning Outcomes of a Course....moreA Grade is a code that indicates the status of the Assessment of Student performance against the Learning Outcomes of a Course. 
Grievance
Typically defined as a concern or Complaint raised by an Employee against a process, action, omission or Decision within the responsibility and control of the University       which relates to employment or related internal People Portfolio matters, which has or is likely to have an unreasonable negative impact on the ability of an Employee to undertake their duties,       or similar impact on the...moreTypically defined as a concern or Complaint raised by an Employee against a process, action, omission or Decision within the responsibility and control of the University       which relates to employment or related internal People Portfolio matters, which has or is likely to have an unreasonable negative impact on the ability of an Employee to undertake their duties,       or similar impact on their career. 
Head of School/College
An academic staff member responsible for the administration of the Course offerings in one or more discipline areas....moreAn academic staff member responsible for the administration of the Course offerings in one or more discipline areas. 
International Student
A Student who is not an Australian citizen, a New Zealand citizen, an Australian Permanent Resident or the holder of an Australian permanent humanitarian visa....moreA Student who is not an Australian citizen, a New Zealand citizen, an Australian Permanent Resident or the holder of an Australian permanent humanitarian visa. 
Misrepresentation and Falsification
Representing data or information incorrectly, improperly or falsely. Examples of Misrepresentation and Falsification may include but are not limited to: Intentional and unauthorised falsification or invention of any information, experimental data or citations in an assessable item;     presenting an untrue statement about attendance or participation in practical, performance or professional learni...moreRepresenting data or information incorrectly, improperly or falsely. Examples of Misrepresentation and Falsification may include but are not limited to: Intentional and unauthorised falsification or invention of any information, experimental data or citations in an assessable item;     presenting an untrue statement about attendance or participation in practical, performance or professional learning activities for Assessment purposes;     submitting a text/code-matching software originality report that falsely represents the originality of an assignment submitted for Assessment;     not disclosing any information where there is a duty to disclose such information; and     providing false information concerning a formal academic exercise, for example, giving a false excuse for missing a deadline or falsely claiming to have submitted       work. 
Notice
A Notice from the University is a document, whether physical or electronic. A Notice may be: given by hand to the addressee or delivered to the address provided by the addressee to the University; or     sent by registered or pre-paid mail to the address provided by the addressee to the University; or     sent by electronic communication to the University-issued email account provided by the Unive...moreA Notice from the University is a document, whether physical or electronic. A Notice may be: given by hand to the addressee or delivered to the address provided by the addressee to the University; or     sent by registered or pre-paid mail to the address provided by the addressee to the University; or     sent by electronic communication to the University-issued email account provided by the University to a Student during the period of Enrolment until the completion of       their program; or     sent by electronic communication to the email address provided to the University by an addressee not enrolled at the University. A Notice is taken to be received if: given by hand to the addressee or delivered to the address provided to the University by the addressee; or     sent by registered or pre-paid mail - three University Business Days after the date of posting; or     sent by electronic communication - at the time that would be the time of receipt under the Electronic Transactions Act       1999 or its succeeding legislation. A Notice that would be deemed to have been received out of business hours or on a non-University Business Day will instead be deemed received on the next University       Business Day. 
Self-plagiarism
Self-plagiarism is the unauthorised use of one's own work, in part or in full, for multiple submissions....moreSelf-plagiarism is the unauthorised use of one's own work, in part or in full, for multiple submissions. 
Student
A person who is enrolled in a UniSQ Upskill Course or who is admitted to an Award Program or Non-Award Program offered by the University and is: currently enrolled in one or more Courses or study units; or     not currently enrolled but is on an approved Leave of Absence or whose admission has not been cancelled....moreA person who is enrolled in a UniSQ Upskill Course or who is admitted to an Award Program or Non-Award Program offered by the University and is: currently enrolled in one or more Courses or study units; or     not currently enrolled but is on an approved Leave of Absence or whose admission has not been cancelled. 
Study Period
The period during which a Course or study unit is offered. Examples of Study Period include, but are not limited to, semesters, trimesters, blocks, intensives and       sessions....moreThe period during which a Course or study unit is offered. Examples of Study Period include, but are not limited to, semesters, trimesters, blocks, intensives and       sessions. 
University Business Days
The days of Monday to Friday inclusive between 9am and 5pm Australian Eastern Standard Time (AEST), with the exclusion of gazetted Public Holidays for the relevant campus       location, plus the closure of the University between 25 December and 1 January in the following year inclusive as specified in the Enterprise Agreement, as well as any closure of the University       either at one or severa...moreThe days of Monday to Friday inclusive between 9am and 5pm Australian Eastern Standard Time (AEST), with the exclusion of gazetted Public Holidays for the relevant campus       location, plus the closure of the University between 25 December and 1 January in the following year inclusive as specified in the Enterprise Agreement, as well as any closure of the University       either at one or several campuses in accordance with a direction of the Crisis Management Team. 
Definitions that relate to this procedure only
Impersonation
Falsely representing another Student in an examination or other Assessment activity (e.g. undertaking an examination or a work placement for another Student) or             making arrangements for another person to falsely represent themself as someone else for the purpose of undertaking an examination or other Assessment activity.
Solicitation
Offering, encouraging, inducing or advertising for another individual/Student to contract, commission, pay, procure, or complete on their behalf, Assessment Items             or tasks that are likely to result in their use for the purpose of Cheating, misrepresentation and/or Plagiarism.
Keywords
Academic Integrity, plagiarism, Collusion, Cheating, Contract Cheating, Self-plagiarism, Solicitation, Impersonation, misrepresentation, falsification, Assessment,             suspension, expulsion, Category 1, Category 2
Record No
14/727PL
   
Complying with the law and observing Policy and Procedure is a condition of working and/or studying at the University.
* This file is available in Portable Document Format (PDF) which requires the use of Adobe Acrobat Reader. A free copy of Acrobat Reader may be obtained from Adobe. Users who are unable to access information in PDF should email policy@usq.edu.au to obtain this information in an alternative format.

                            The University of Southern Queensland acknowledges the traditional custodians of the lands
                            and waterways where the University is located. Further, we acknowledge the cultural
                            diversity of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples and pay respect to Elders past,
                            present and future.
                        

                            © University of Southern Queensland 2022. UniSQ is a member of the Regional
                            Universities Network.
                            CRICOS: QLD 00244B, NSW 02225M TEQSA: PRV12081 | About site

