Wayland Baptist University official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://www.wbu.edu/faculty-and-staff/policies-and-procedures-private/8.4.1.htm
Classification Number 8.4.1
Revised: January 10, 2024
 
SUBJECT:       ACADEMIC INTEGRITY
 
As stated in Wayland Baptist University’s Statement on Academic Integrity (Attachment A), students are expected to conduct themselves in accordance with the highest standards of    academic honesty and personal integrity. Students are subject to penalty for all forms of academic dishonesty, including but not limited to illicit possession of examinations or examination materials, sharing of log-ins that allow unauthorized online course assistance, using generative artificial intelligence (GAI) tools without authorization from course instructor, or presenting the work of another or a GAI creation as one’s own work (plagiarism, forgery, falsification of records, etc.)
 
The university reserves the right, through proper procedures, to place any student on probation or suspension who violates academic integrity and regulations by providing misleading or incomplete information to the university, by falsification of university records, by plagiarizing, by exhibiting improper classroom demeanor, by sharing log-in information in an unauthorized manner, or by engaging in any other form of academic dishonesty.
 
The faculty member assigned to the course is responsible for disciplinary action for academic misconduct. The faculty member is charged with assessing the gravity of any case of academic dishonesty and with giving sanctions to any student involved.
 
The official written reprimand to the student from the faculty member will include one or more of the following penalties as applicable in the individual instance or case of academic dishonesty:
 
In extreme instances such as group cheating, sharing personal log-in information, or unauthorized use of GAI to complete the majority of a course, the faculty member assigned to the course may also recommend expulsion of involved students. This option would occur only after the vice president of academic affairs’ review and approval.
 
The student’s first instance of academic dishonesty will result in an official reprimand from the faculty member detailing the faculty member’s sanction. A second case of academic dishonesty will result in automatic suspension from the university. In this case, the student may reapply after a one-year suspension is served. Subsequent offenses, or the decision of the vice president of academic affairs, may result in permanent expulsion from the university.
 
Any student who has been penalized for violations of academic integrity--academic dishonesty, improper classroom demeanor, or providing false or misleading information--has the right to appeal the judgment or the penalty assessed. The appeals procedure will be the same as that specified for Student Grade Appeals, (policy 8.2.1).
Full-time faculty members, adjunct instructors, or proctors should electronically report violations of academic integrity as described below. This record of the offense should include:
 
See Attachment B for a Violation of Academic Integrity Report template.
 
Faculty members, adjunct instructors, and proctors will follow these procedures for filing records of the offense:
 
School Deans and Executive Directors/Campus Deans who receive a faculty member’s/instructor’s report of academic dishonesty must submit that report to the secure online portal at dishonesty.wbu.edu.
The vice president of academic affairs is responsible for monitoring cases of academic dishonesty. In the event of a second offense, the vice president of academic affairs will notify the   student, appropriate school dean, external campus executive director/dean, and the university registrar, financial aid, business office, and graduate studies (if applicable). The student’s official record will note “WF” for each class from which the individual is withdrawn due to the second reported instance of academic dishonesty if no final grade has previously been submitted for the course, and the transcript will state “Academic Suspension” for that term or session. Any applicable refund will be processed according to university policy. 
 
 
Contact for Interpretation: Vice President of Academic Affairs
 
This policy statement supersedes all previous policy statements on this subject.
Revisions:
-       03/21/2007 – Review
-       08/15/2004 – Reissue as 8.4.1
 
Printable Policy 8.4.1
Printable 8.4.1 Attachment A
8.4.1 Attachment B - Violation of Academic Integrity Report
 
Connect with Us:
Copyright © 2022
