Webster University North Florida official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://www.webster.edu/business-and-technology/center-cybersecurity.php
As an independent nonprofit institution, Webster University's goal is to curate relevant
                                 programs for our students while upholding the highest academic standards.
Whether you'll be a freshman or a transfer student, you plan to study abroad or are
                                 active military; there's a program at Webster University for you. Become a Gorlok
                                 today!
Webster University is an independent nonprofit institution with a century of time-tested
                                 results. Today, we serve 13,000-plus students both in the U.S. and worldwide.

The Walker School of Business and Technology at Webster University is part of the
                           SAP university alliance, and offers undergraduate courses, master's programs, certificates,
                           online programs, and a global campus network.
At the Walker School of Business & Technology, we're passionate about providing our
                           students with the tools necessary to achieve career success in your chosen field.
Learn more about The Walker School of Business & Technology's assessment, accreditations,
                           mission, vision and values.
Call 314-246-7800 or 800-753-6765, or email admit@webster.edu
Our UNCOMN Cybersecurity Center is home to the state-of-the-art Cybersecurity Center
                        of Excellence Laboratory and the Cybersecurity Academic Advisory Council. The center
                        promotes undergraduate- and graduate-level cyber education, while serving as a venue
                        for collaboration between faculty, students and community members on cybersecurity
                        issues.
In 2023, Webster University partnered with UNCOMN, a local agency providing business-to-business management and technology consulting
                        services. This partnership will help the next generation of cybersecurity experts
                        by connecting Webster undergraduates with resources and nontraditional pathways to
                        careers in cybersecurity. Through firsthand exposure to industry scenarios and the
                        opportunity to network with current professionals, cybersecurity students at Webster
                        will be thoroughly prepared to enter the workforce. 
 

Students have the tools they need to learn to address issues concerning:
In 2019, Webster University was welcomed into the Center of Academic Excellence (CAE) Community by the National Security Agency (NSA) and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS),
                        who designated Webster University’s undergraduate cybersecurity programs as a National
                        Center of Academic Excellence in Cyber Defense (CAE-CD). 
According to the NSA, “The goal of the program is to reduce vulnerability in our national
                        information infrastructure. Students graduating from CAE-CD institutions are considered
                        to have received the finest levels of formal cybersecurity education."
MS in Cybersecurity
The dedicated Cyber Lab at Webster University is located in the East Academic Building,
                              home of the Walker School of Business & Technology. It is available exclusively for
                              students enrolled in cybersecurity courses.
Ray Bonnan, PhDMario Campanelli, PhDClaude Chadet, PhDSebastian DubailArash Golnam, PhDViktor Polic, PhDDaniel Schneider, PhDVivian Synteta
Universities.com ranked Webster University No. 1 Best Cyber Security college in Missouri
                              for 2021.
To review, assess, support, and provide guidance on the Cybersecurity Programs at
                                    Webster University. The CAAC members will advise the University regarding the substance
                                    of the curriculum, effectiveness as applied to the discipline of cybersecurity, industry
                                    trends, and other related aspects of the program for the purpose of continuous improvement
                                    and responsiveness to the needs of industry and government. The council members will
                                    also support an ecosystem whereby a pipeline for students to intern with regional
                                    organizations, along with supporting opportunities for students to engage in research
                                    projects with cybersecurity experts, practitioners, and teams from industry/government
                                    IT organizations.
Marc Ashworth is a respected IT executive with over 30 years of experience in cyber
                                    and physical security, IT/security architecture and project management, and is an
                                    author and a public speaker. He is a board member of the St. Louis Chapter of InfraGard,
                                    co-founded the State of Cyber annual security conference, and a lifetime member of
                                    FBI Citizens Academy. Possessing security certifications in CISSP, CISM, CRISC, Security+
                                    and other certifications, Ashworth currently oversees First Bank’s information security,
                                    fraud, physical security and the network services departments. He can be contacted
                                    at marc.ashworth@fbol.com, marc@ashworthcorp.com, or on LinkedIn.
Patrick Grimsley serves as the USTRANSCOM senior cybersecurity advisor on key cybersecurity
                                    issues. He represents the USTRANSCOM Commander and Chief Information Officer at senior
                                    level national, DoD, and industry committees and working groups. He also oversees
                                    cybersecurity assessments of Information Technology systems and software operated
                                    on the USTRANSCOM network. Grimsley is responsible for preparing and delivering strategic
                                    communications to senior military leaders on matters relating to cybersecurity and
                                    defensive cyber operations. He develops cyber operations goals and objectives, employs
                                    cyber best practices and innovates tools and practical solutions to enhance capabilities
                                    and operational effectiveness. He began his career with the United States Air Force
                                    in 1998. He worked in contracted Information Technology support for 4 years before
                                    transitioning to federal civilian service in 2010.  He holds a Bachelor of Business
                                    Administration degree from McKendree University in Lebanon, Illinois. In 2015, he
                                    became certified as Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL) V3 Expert
                                    in IT Service Management, Service Strategy, Service Operation, Service Design, Service
                                    Transition, Operational Support and Analysis, Managing Across the Lifecycle; in 2016
                                    - Certified Information Security Manager, Information Systems Audit and Control Association.
                                    He received the Joint Meritorious Civilian Service Award, and in 2018 and 2019, the
                                    NSA Rowlett Organizational Award.
 
As the Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) for Bayer, a leading global agriculture
                                    company, Gary Harbison leads the Information Security Office with global responsibility
                                    for cybersecurity, privacy and business continuity management. Harbison is also a
                                    member of the IT Leadership Team helping to define and drive the company's global
                                    IT strategy. Harbison has 19 years of overall IT experience, with 17 of those focused
                                    in the information security domain. He received his bachelor's degree in Business
                                    Administration from Webster University in St. Louis. He is also an Adjunct Professor
                                    in the Cybersecurity master's program at Washington University in St. Louis.
 
Jeff Horton's responsibilities include developing and executing on strategic roadmaps
                                    for applications that support and manage the finances for the United States and other
                                    Federal Government Agencies. His professional expertise includes over 17 years of
                                    experience assisting multiple Fortune 500 organizations on data privacy and cybersecurity
                                    initiatives. He is a versatile technical leader, strategist and security practitioner,
                                    with exceptional interpersonal, problem-solving and communications skills. A proven
                                    thought leader in building the security governance, security culture and security
                                    capabilities for some of the world's top organizations. Horton received his bachelor's
                                    and master's degree from Webster University in St. Louis, and is currently pursuing
                                    his Juris Doctorate Law Degree. He currently holds professional security certifications
                                    that include CCSP, CISSP, CISM, ENCE and CEH.
Dan Henke joined Mercy in March 2013 as Vice President, Information Security Officer.
                                    He is responsible for all areas of the Mercy Information Security Program and acts
                                    as the Chief Health Insurance Portability and Accountability (HIPAA) Security Compliance
                                    Officer. Prior to joining Mercy, Henke was the Chief Information Security Officer
                                    (CISO) with Maritz Holdings, Inc., in St. Louis where he led a strong security program
                                    attaining Payment Card Industry (PCI) certification and consistently passed demanding
                                    security audits and assessments of Fortune 500 clients. He came to Mercy with over
                                    20 years of Information Technology leadership experience and a track record of contributing
                                    to business success through technology, building strong technical teams and developing
                                    internal and external stakeholder relationships. Dan was recently named one of the
                                    "32 Hospital and Health System CISO to Know in 2018" by Becker's Hospital Review.
                                    Henke holds a bachelor's degree and MBA from St. Louis University. In addition, he
                                    is a Permanent Deacon for the Archdiocese of St. Louis and assists the pastor at Holy
                                    Infant Church in Ballwin, Missouri.
 
Chris Niekamp has spent his career in Information Technology, working as part of various
                                    teams to deliver innovative solutions for customers. With a consistent focus on collaboration
                                    and partnering with others he has worked to evolve the overall security posture of
                                    BJC, while leading highly skill people who consistently look to improve processes
                                    and leverage industry-leading technology.
As the Director of Security Operations and Deputy Chief Information Security Officer,
                                    Niekamp is responsible for the Security Operations Center, Architecture, Access, Engineering,
                                    Security Project Portfolio and Strategy teams for BJC Healthcare, and acting on behalf
                                    of the BJC Healthcare CISO in certain delegated capacities. As the Director of Security
                                    Operations and Deputy CISO, he advocates for BJC’s total information security needs
                                    and is responsible for the development and delivery of the operational components
                                    of Information Security around incident response, technology roadmaps, support and
                                    maintenance of security technology, providing guidance to IT and other organizations
                                    within BJC, and the execution of projects key to the mission of Information Security
                                    at BJC. Niekamp holds a Bachelor of Science in Administrative Management from Missouri
                                    State University in Springfield, Missouri.
 

As Managing Director of Information Security and IT for Spire, Pat Origliasso is responsible
                                    for leading the cybersecurity team in protecting Spire’s employees, assets and data,
                                    while managing cyber-related risks and defending against threats to the organization.
                                    He leads the implementation of federal regulatory requirements placed on critical
                                    pipeline operators while also providing leadership within the application development,
                                    infrastructure and support teams at Spire.
Origliasso joined Spire in 2019 after serving in various information security roles
                                    with Enterprise Holdings for nearly 20 years, ultimately responsible for the development
                                    of strategic roadmaps and operational performance for multiple teams in the Security
                                    Operations division.
He holds two bachelor’s degrees from Lindenwood University in Computer Science and
                                    Mathematics and a master’s degree from Lindenwood in Business Administration. In the
                                    community, he is an advisory board member for the Joshua Chamberlain Society and a
                                    member of the Webster University Cybersecurity Academic Advisory Council.
 
As Global Vice President and Chief Information Officer of Mallinckrodt Pharmaceuticals,
                                    Shrikant Ramachandran has global responsibility for the company's Information Technology.
                                    He assumes responsibility for partnering with the various divisions, regions, local
                                    markets and global support functions to deliver appropriate IT systems. Ramachandran
                                    also directs all IT activities, including applications, infrastructure and projects
                                    in North Americas, Europe and Asia, with the regional head of ITs reporting directly
                                    to him. He has extensive global IT experience from the pharmaceutical and medical
                                    device industries, which includes time living and working in Asia, Australasia, Europe
                                    and the U.S. Prior to joining Mallinckrodt, he was the Global VP and CIO for Synthes
                                    and was also responsible for the integration and merger of Depuy Synthes, a Johnson
                                    & Johnson family of companies. Previously, Ramachandran held the position of Consulting
                                    Director at Deloitte working with several Fortune 500 clients in North America, Europe
                                    and Asia. Prior to Deloitte, he worked with CapGemini, IBM and SGS Thomson Microelectronics.
                                    He holds a bachelor's degree in Mechanical Engineering from Bangalore University,
                                    India, a Masters of Engineering from Canterbury University, New Zealand, and an MBA
                                    from Smeal School of Business at Penn State University, U.S.
Protecting computer systems and networks from information disclosure, theft of or
                           damage, as well as disruption or misdirection of services is a major concern in today's
                           environment. Discover more resources that will help complement your academic progress
                           in Cybersecurity.
October 5, 2023
September 29, 2023
June 9, 2023
© Webster University
