Western Washington University official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://atus.wwu.edu/faqs-generative-ai-teaching-learning-technology
ATUS and Learning Systems are exploring how generative artificial intelligence tools, such as ChatGPT, are being used in higher education. We are coordinating with relevant offices and entities as we continue to learn more about the implications for teaching, learning, technology, policies, and procedures. See also: 
Updated 9/14/23: Check this FAQ often as we will continue to update it with what we know. This information is subject to change.
Whether an instructor chooses to discourage, limit, or embrace AI use in their courses, designing course content with AI in mind and communicating a clear message to students is invaluable. See the following TLCo-op post for ideas on syllabus language, assignment and course design, and more:
Because generative AI creates its material from a model of data, it may not be possible to fully eliminate copyrighted elements from AI-generated content. The Washington State Office of the CIO’s Interim Generative AI Guidelines note that “...state personnel should conduct due diligence to ensure no copyrighted material is published without appropriate attribution to the acquisition of necessary rights. This includes content generated by AI systems, which could inadvertently infringe upon existing copyrights.”
AI systems and the algorithms they use can impart cultural, economic, identity, and social biases of the source materials used for training data. Anyone using AI-generated content should ensure that unintended or undesirable instances of bias, or even potentially offensive or harmful material, is changed or removed (with grateful attribution to City of Seattle, Interim Policy).
When instructors have enabled plagiarism/AI detection in Canvas assignments, students are presented with the following: “I agree to the tool's End-User License Agreement. This submission is my own, unique writing and work. I understand that if I use ideas or words that are not my own, without giving appropriate credit/citations, I could be reported for violating the Academic Honesty Policy.” Students must check the box next to this statement in order to submit their work.
Copyright law states that students hold the copyright to works created and submitted as their academic work. Thus, without express written consent, student works cannot be used for research, publication, etc. While the use of student works for AI detection do not infringe upon their copyright, it is worth noting that work submitted to these tools should be fully anonymized. ATUS recommends beginning an evaluation using the plagiarism detection tool built into Canvas assignments.
Connect, Engage, Empower

                      Western Washington University's main campus is situated on the ancestral homelands of the Coast Salish Peoples, who have lived in the Salish Sea basin, all throughout the San Juan Islands and the North Cascades watershed from time immemorial. We express our deepest respect and gratitude to our Indigenous neighbors, for their enduring care and protection of our shared lands and waterways.
                  

                      © 2024 Western Washington University
                  
