Western Michigan University official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://wmich.edu/x/teaching-learning/ai
WMUx, in partnership with a number of Western Michigan University experts, can help you learn more about recent developments in Generative Artificial Intelligence (AI) that are impacting how we teach and research in higher education.
Just beginning to learn about AI? Consult our Quick Start AI Guide that provides an overview, information on prompting, citation, ethics, and syllabus statements.
 Get Started
Concerned about academic integrity? Instructors are encouraged to remind learners of the institution’s policies on academic honesty and to direct their questions about the process that WMU has in place to resolve issues of academic honesty to the Office of Student Rights and Responsibilities. For information on the lack of reliability of AI detection devices, see our Resource List.
Incorporating AI into your teaching, research, or creative activity? Check out our Teaching with AI articles, resources, events, and discussion groups or contact us for a one-on-one consultation.
Interested in understanding what courses will be offered to students related to AI? Check out our Spotlight section to see a list of the planned courses for the upcoming semester.
When considering the many new and ever-changing AI tools, their ubiquitous and exponential nature can make it difficult to know where to start and how they might be best used in the classroom. One way to approach Large Language Model (LLM) AIs like ChatGPT and Claude 2 is to think of them as assistants or thought partners. Explore articles on teaching with AI.
  Back to top
WMUx hosts several AI @ WMU workshops and speaker events. For full event descriptions, visit our WMUx Events page for details.
 
Did you miss an AI @ WMU event? No problem! Access all session materials and event recordings in our WMUx event archive.
 See all WMUx Events
  Back to top
WMUx has curated a list of resources on Generative AI that will be updated weekly. We invite you to explore our resource list to learn more. 
 AI @ WMU Resource List 
WMU faculty, part-time instructors, staff, and graduate instructors are invited to get involved in two discussion groups that will be sponsored by WMUx in Fall 2023: an AI Ethics & Bias Discussion Group that is open to all categories, and an AI Teaching Discussion Group open to instructors who are using AI in their courses.
 AI Ethics & Bias        AI Teaching 
  Back to top
In Spring 2024, many Western Michigan University departments will offer courses that focus on various aspects of Artificial Intelligence. For more information, consult the instructors listed with each offering.
3 credit hours, in personMW 12:30 to 1:45 p.m., CRN 15782Dr. Brian Gogan
 AI Prompting for Real-World Applications
Generative AI platforms are changing how humans write and what humans write. These AI platforms assist us as we draft documents, graphics, and code. We need to know how best to construct inputs, called “prompts,” so that we can get good outputs from these Generative AI tools. Regardless of your major, this class helps you apply prompting strategies to real-world contexts that matter to you, your passions, and your career. Think of this class like a maker’s lab: Your assignments will be exploratory and experimental.
3 credit hours, in person and onlineTR 9:30 to 10:45 a.m., CRN 15417, in person (Sec 1)Asynchronous online, CRN 15416 (Sec 2)Professor David Paul (Sec 1), Professor Jonathan Milgrim (Sec 2)
Advances in artificial intelligence represent some of the most transformative technological innovations of our time. In this course, students will explore the evolution of AI and its expanding capabilities in areas like language processing, computer vision, robotics, and more. The course provides an accessible introduction to core AI concepts while focusing on real-world implications and ethical considerations. Students will examine existing and emerging uses of AI in fields like business, politics, medicine, education, and the arts. Case studies will illustrate how AI can be used for benefit or harm, highlighting concerns around bias, automation, disinformation and other risks. This course will equip students to critically analyze and engage in informed debates about managing one of the most consequential technologies of our era.
3 credit hours, onlineAsynchronous online, CRN 14496Dr. Autumn Edwards
A foundational course that not only introduces students to the core principles and practices of User Experience (UX), but also highlights the growing influence of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in shaping modern user experiences across diverse domains. This course invites students to explore the dynamic and evolving landscape of user experiences, from the virtual realms of gaming and immersive realities to the ever-connected world of social media and the exciting frontiers of human-robot interaction and human-machine communication, all while considering the impact of AI. This course empowers students to explore the science of user experience, embracing a human-centered and ethical approach to design and evaluation. Additionally, students will explore how our technologies, tools, and products both shape and are shaped by human behavior and needs, creating a dynamic and symbiotic relationship that is fundamental to contemporary UX design and development.
3 credit hours, in personTR 12:30 to 1:45 p.m., CRN 13481Dr. Autumn Edwards
An introduction to human-machine communication, this course focuses on the theory and practice of interpersonal interactions with digital interlocutors in the form of artificial conversation entities, artificially intelligent (AI) software agents (chatbots), embodied machine communicators (robots), and technologically augmented persons, as well as interpersonal communication in the context of virtual and augmented spaces. Through experiential learning opportunities and assignments, students are encouraged to (1) increase their awareness of the personal, relational, and social implications of communication between humans and machines, in historical, present-day, and anticipatory contexts, and (2) further develop competencies in communicating with and about machine partners.
3 credit hours, in personMW 3:30 to 4:45 p.m., CRN 14365Dr. Chad Edwards
This course focuses on Artificial Intelligence (AI) and interaction in society from a theoretical and application standpoint. Students will learn critical AI questions, issues, and debates that influence the development and deployment of AI. The basics of building an AI interaction system and the best practices will be discussed.
3 credit hours, hybridM 6 to 8:30 p.m., in person (1/8, 1/15, 4/15) and online, CRN 15537Dr. Chad Edwards
In the era of rapid technological advancements, the influence of artificial intelligence (AI) on social media communication has become more pronounced than ever. This graduate-level course, "AI and Social Media Communication," explores the intersection of AI technologies and their impact on how individuals, businesses, and society engage, connect, and communicate digitally. Students will delve into the theoretical foundations and practical applications of AI in the context of social media platforms, gaining a comprehensive understanding.
Additionally, the School of Communication within the College of Arts and Sciences offers a minor in User Experience/Human-Computer Interaction (UX/HCI). Learn more.
 
 
 
  Back to top
3 hours, in personSection 1: MW 9:30 to 10:45 a.m., CRN 12068Section 2: TR 2 to 3:15 p.m., CRN 12462Dr. Muhammad Razi
This course is designed to give students with foundational analytics experience comprehensive skills and in-depth knowledge in analytical problem solving through business examples with particular focus on visualizing analyses. Students will learn visual representation techniques to transform data into insights. Tools, techniques, and theories within the realm of business intelligence and data visualization will be explored, utilizing both productivity and specialized software.
3 credit hours, in personSection 1: MW 5 to 6:15 p.m., CRN 12463Section 2: MW 3:30 to 4:45 p.m., CRN 11975Dr. KC Chen
This course focuses on the theoretical understanding and practical applications of data mining as a decision support tool. Specifically, it covers several types of modeling techniques and tools such as prediction, classification, segmentation and association detection algorithms. Students are introduced to the state-of-the-art data mining applications software such as SAS Enterprise Miner or SPSS Clementine for their class assignments and term project.
3 credit hours, in personR 6:30 to 9 p.m., CRN 15630Dr. KC Chen
This course is designed to introduce students to various forms of AI used to address business problems. Natural language processing (NLP), machine learning, generative AI, fraud detection, topic modeling, predictive maintenance, human-AI symbiosis, formal AI tests, user generated contents (e.g., product reviews) / electronic word-of-mouth (eWOM), societal impacts and many other topics will be covered. Students will also learn to analyze structured/unstructured data, big data, and specific forms of data (small and wide data). There will be readings, theoretical introductions, and hands-on exercises using existing software packages.
3 credit hours, online (partially synchronous)F 6 to 9 p.m., CRN 14549Dr. Reza Mousavi
This course introduces data visualization, exploratory data analysis, and visualization theories. Students will learn visualization techniques to analyze real-time and/or off-line data, create high-impact visualizations, and build interactive dashboards to uncover critical business insights. Students will also learn to design data stories with effective visuals to communicate analytics findings to the intended audiences.
Online/HybridTuesdays at 7 p.m., CRN 15357Sunny Yurasek (guest lecturer)
ReGenerative AI for Marketing
This course explores the transformative landscape of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in the realm of marketing, specifically in the Food and Beverage industry. Students will delve into the core concepts of AI, including Machine Learning, Deep Learning, Generative AI, and the groundbreaking field of Regenerative AI. Guest lecturer and data scientist, Sunny Yurasek, will guide students through a comprehensive exploration of common AI modeling techniques specific to the Food and Beverage industry, demonstrating how these technologies can accelerate and differentiate organizations within this sector. The course will also cover essential AI data fundamentals, exposing students to the tools to master assortment modeling in the context of marketing. Students will examine the positive and negative impacts of AI on marketing strategies and will discuss the topics of ethical AI and customer privacy in order to develop a well-rounded perspective on the responsible application of these technologies in marketing.
  Back to top
Western Michigan UniversityKalamazoo MI 49008-5200 USA(269) 387-1000Contact WMU
WMU Notice of Non-DiscriminationLand Acknowledgment Statement
© 2024 All rights reserved.
