West Chester University of Pennsylvania official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://www.wcupa.edu/tlc/ai-resources.aspx
Address: Anderson Hall 1st Floor 725 S Church St West Chester, PA 19383
Phone: 610-436-2948 Fax: 610-436-2189 Email: DistanceEd@wcupa.edu
Distance Education Support Phone: 610-436-3373 Email: DistanceEd@wcupa.edu
This page will explore the topic of generative AI, including its impact on the classroom
                                 as well as potential instructional uses for generative AI tools. 
We recognize that there are different approaches to teaching across disciplines and
                                 do not assume that all faculty will incorporate generative AI or do it the same way.
                                 Whatever way you may choose to engage (or not) with generative AI in your courses,
                                 it is important to do so thoughtfully and strategically. We hope this page will be
                                 helpful in this regard. The toolkit includes a wide range of approaches and strategies
                                 for you to consider incorporating into your courses. It is not meant to be a ‘how-to’
                                 guide for integrating generative AI but more of a resource to help you think through
                                 and decide what options are best suited for your teaching context. We encourage you
                                 to think about your teaching approach and context as you review the strategies shared
                                 in this document.
If you would like to discuss strategies for your specific context, please reach out
                                 to your Instructional Designer or drop into the TLC Drop-In Hours. If you would like to share your experiences with AI, please complete the Experiences with Generative AI Survey.
Generative artificial intelligence (“AI”) tools use machine learning models to create
                                 new, human-realistic content in response to a prompt. The tools are readily available
                                 to students, and just as previous educational technologies have done, AI tools are
                                 changing educational, learning, and knowledge practices. Given a carefully worded
                                 prompt, these tools can compare texts, mimic critical thinking, and generate content
                                 that reads like a personal narrative (Mills, 2023). It is no wonder that academics are spending so much time thinking and discussing
                                 the implications of generative AI to teaching and learning.
Much of the concern around ChatGPT, Bing AI, Google Bard, and other generative AI
                                 tools has centered around the challenge of students using them to write and submit
                                 their assignments. How will we be able to assess student work to support their learning
                                 if they are not submitting work that they are producing themselves? How do we teach
                                 students core skills like critical thinking and communication with generative AI tools
                                 so easily accessible? These are some of the questions that faculty in the US and beyond
                                 have been pondering. One of our responsibilities is to teach students how to engage
                                 with these tools in responsible and ethical ways while also being critical of the
                                 ways these tools influence our world.
As you consider your approach, we urge you to remember that we are preparing students
                                 for a world that already has generative AI. Students may already be using generative
                                 AI tools in a variety of ways that supports their learning, such as:
The Teaching and Learning Center has identified four levels of use for your consideration.
                                 You might consider including a statement on your syllabus that communicates to students
                                 your approach to engaging in the course. If you would like help with drafting such
                                 a statement, please reach out to your Instructional Designer or reach out to the Teaching & Learing Center for assistance.
Feedback Provider: Students load their work into the AI tool and ask for feedback. This can be a guided
                                             exercise for students or one they do independently. Instructors can also submit student
                                             work to an AI tool for initial feedback ideas as part of the assessment process. (Source:
                                             Brent Anders, 2023; DitchthatTextbook) 
Enhance “Think, Pair, Share”: After asking students to pair and share their initial thoughts on a question, have
                                             them submit their idea to or ask the question of an A.I. tool. Then students review
                                             the response together to see how it compares to what they originally generated before
                                             sharing with the class. (Source: Sarah Dillard) 
Grade the AI: Students take an AI created item and provide a grade with feedback on how well the
                                             AI generated product meets a set of criteria. (Source: Matt Miller, DitchthatTextbook)
Outwrite the AI / Anticipate the AI: Provide students with a prompt and ask them to write a better response than the one
                                             generated by the AI tool. Share the AI generated response and ask students to articulate
                                             how their writing was better. Alternatively, ask students to anticipate how the AI
                                             will respond to a given prompt. (Inspired by Karen Costa) 
Example Generator: Use the AI to provide an unlimited number of concept or application examples. Students
                                             can then “compare across different contexts, explain the core of a concept, and point
                                             out inconsistencies and missing information in the way the AI applies concepts to
                                             new situations.” (Mollick & Mollick, 2022) 
Debate the Bot / Hold a Conversation: Utilize the AI tool as one side in a debate and have students take the other side.
                                             This can be done both individually or as a whole class. Alternatively, students can
                                             engage in a conversation with the AI tool on a specific topic.  (Source: Matt Miller) 
Personalize Learning Plans: Students ask the AI tool to create a learning plan specific to their needs and conditions.
                                             Alternatively, students could also request study materials from an AI tool.
Align Assessments to Course Goals: AI tools may expose assessments that are misaligned to learning goals or lack relevance
                                             to students. As you review your assessments, be sure you can articulate how the assessment
                                             provides evidence in support of the student learning goal and be able to articulate
                                             a clear rationale for why or how the assessment is going to benefit a student.
Personalize Writing Prompts: Ask students to make connections between or apply their own personal knowledge and
                                             experiences to course concepts and topics. (Source: Practical Responses to ChatGPT) 
Use Genre-Based Assignments: Engage students’ motivation and curiosity with genre-based assignments that inspire
                                             creativity and reflection, for example artist statements, public service announcements,
                                             or turning-point essays. (Source: How to Create Compelling Writing Assignments in a ChatGPT Age)
Cite Specific Material or New Information: Ask students to reference or connect their work to current events or conversations
                                             in the discipline or use specific references from course materials like notes, readings,
                                             or other information sources that are not available on the free internet. Currently,
                                             ChatGPT only uses information through 2021. (Source: Artificial Intelligence Writing)    
Ask for Creative Outputs: Incorporate visual or auditory components in the assessment. For example, items like
                                             infographics, memes, presentations, graphs, charts, diagrams, drawing, podcasts, audio
                                             responses, or videos.
Use a Flipped Class Approach: Students engage with course content outside of class and then apply that information
                                             in class. For example, ask students to write a brief response to questions you might
                                             have asked for homework in class and then engage in peer review of their writing.
Assign a Handwritten Exercise: While this has drawbacks (namely difficult to read handwriting and paper management),
                                             asking students to write out information by hand may help them better remember the
                                             content.   
Check Your Writing Prompts: Load your assessment prompts into an artificial intelligence tool and assess the
                                             output. If the AI response would earn an adequate score, adjust your prompt.  
Try Social Annotation Options: As a replacement for short writing prompts related to readings, ask students to use
                                             social annotation tools to engage with a text alongside their peers. You can use WCU-provided
                                             VoiceThread, Google Docs, or Microsoft Word via OneDrive to conduct this type of activity. 
Fully Incorporate AI into a Writing Assignment: Allow AI writing tool assistance for an assignment. Ask students to submit prompt(s)
                                             used, original AI tool output, and a document with tracked changes showing how the
                                             student added depth, clarified misinformation, added alternative perspectives, and
                                             any other improvements. (Source: Brent Anders)
Turnitin is a text-matching software available through WCU’s learning management system
                                       (D2L) that offers tools to support academic integrity.  When an instructor enables
                                       Turnitin in a D2L course, student assignments are submitted to Turnitin which then
                                       matches text within the assignment to existing text in a database of previously submitted
                                       papers, internet sources, journal, and other publications. Turnitin generates a ‘Similarity Report’ that provides a summary of text that has matched with another source. All submitted
                                       assignments are added to Turnitin’s global database for text-matching with future
                                       submissions. It is important to note that Turnitin only checks for text similarity,
                                       and not for all forms of plagiarism. As Turnitin explains, it is more accurate to
                                       think of their tool as a ‘text-matching’ or ‘similarity-checking’ tool rather than a ‘plagiarism-checking’
                                          tool. Text is flagged by the tool when it matches against other text in their database.
Turnitin recently rolled out an ‘AI Detector’ tool to help faculty identify instances
                                 of academic dishonesty where students submit AI-generated material for course assignments.
                                 The ‘AI Detector’ tool tries to match submitted text against AI-generated text. Details
                                 on how Turnitin’s AI Writing Detection works are provided on the company's FAQs. The challenge is that it is difficult for this or any tool to reliably detect AI-generated
                                 text because AI language models are designed to mimic human-generated text.   There has been considerable concern expressed by faculty and institutions in the US
                                 and beyond about the potential impact of the AI Detector tool on courses, student
                                 learning, and the academic environment. Some institutions have made the decision to
                                 opt out of the tool because of these concerns. Here are a few examples: 
It is apparent from these examples that there are serious legal and academic ramifications
                                 associated with using Turnitin AI Writing Detector. It is risky to use the AI Detector
                                 Similarity Report as the sole basis for determining that a student has violated academic
                                 integrity because it is not wholly reliable.  
The AI Writing Detection tool is currently enabled at WCU.  The Teaching and Learning
                                 Center (TLC) and Information Systems &Technology (IS&T) urge faculty who may choose
                                 to use this tool to do so with caution. Consider the following recommendations for
                                 using the tool ethically and responsibly: 
Check our Events Calendar for upcoming workshops and events to get involved with conversations about generative
                                 AI already happening at WCU, or fill out the Experiences with Generative AI Survey to start another!
During the Fall 2023 semester, the Teaching and Learning Center conducted a webinar
                                 series on Teaching with AI.
What is an LLM, and how does it work?
Collection of assignments engaging with text generation by WAC Clearinghouse
Advice document prepared by digital rhetoric professor Edward Schiappa and digital
                                          media professor Nick Montfort for their colleagues at MIT , which identifies some key issues for thinking about generative AI in the classroom
Siva Vaidhyanathan’s op ed about using ChatGPT as a “teachable moment”
John Warner’s “How About We Put Teaching at the Center”, another piece that succinctly explains a philosophy for approaching AI tools
For those interested in a more scholarly approach that delves into the larger questions
                                       of meaning, N. Katherine Hayles's “Inside the Mind of an AI: Materiality and the Crisis of Representation” is very good
Hayles's writing also complements pieces like Bender’s “Stochastic Parrot” essay quite nicely
Another resource of interest to those wrestling with the larger questions of meaning
                                       and AI text is the “Again Theory” forum Matthew Kirschenbaum organized for Critical Inquiry
For even more resources, check Prof. Famiglietti's Zotero library
