Yeshiva University official policy on generative AI Artificial Intelligence
https://www.yu.edu/academic-integrity/resources

Dear Students, Faculty, Staff and Friends,
I am pleased to present to you this Guide to our plans for the upcoming fall semester and reopening of our campuses. In form and in content, this coming semester will be like no other. We will live differently, work differently and learn differently. But in its very difference rests its enormous power.

The mission of Yeshiva University is to enrich the moral, intellectual and spiritual development of each of our students, empowering them with the knowledge and abilities to become people of impact and leaders of tomorrow. Next year’s studies will be especially instrumental in shaping the course of our students’ lives. Character is formed and developed in times of deep adversity. This is the kind of teachable moment that Yeshiva University was made for. As such, we have developed an educational plan for next year that features a high-quality student experience and prioritizes personal growth during this Coronavirus era. Our students will be able to work through the difficulties, issues and opportunities posed by our COVID-19 era with our stellar rabbis and faculty, as well as their close friends and peers at Yeshiva. 
To develop our plans for the fall, we have convened a Scenario Planning Task Force made up of representatives across the major areas of our campus. Their planning has been guided by the latest medical information, government directives, direct input from our rabbis, faculty and students, and best practices from industry and university leaders across the country. I am deeply thankful to our task force members and all who supported them for their tireless work in addressing the myriad details involved in bringing students back to campus and restarting our educational enterprise.

In concert with the recommendations from our task force, I am announcing today that our fall semester will reflect a hybrid model. It will allow many students to return in a careful way by incorporating online and virtual learning with on-campus classroom instruction. It also enables students who prefer to not be on campus to have a rich student experience by continuing their studies online and benefitting from a full range of online student services and extracurricular programs.

In bringing our students back to campus, safety is our first priority. Many aspects of campus life will change for this coming semester. Gatherings will be limited, larger courses will move completely online. Throughout campus everyone will need to adhere to our medical guidelines, including social distancing, wearing facemasks, and our testing and contact tracing policies. Due to our focus on minimizing risk, our undergraduate students will begin the first few weeks of the fall semester online and move onto the campus after the Jewish holidays. This schedule will limit the amount of back and forth travel for our students by concentrating the on-campus component of the fall semester to one consecutive segment.

Throughout our planning, we have used the analogy of a dimmer switch. Reopening our campuses will not be a simple binary, like an on/off light switch, but more like a dimmer in which we have the flexibility to scale backwards and forwards to properly respond as the health situation evolves. It is very possible that some plans could change, depending upon the progression of the virus and/or applicable state and local government guidance.

Before our semester begins, we will provide more updates reflecting our most current guidance. Please check our website, yu.edu/fall2020 for regular updates. We understand that even after reading through this guide, you might have many additional questions, so we will be posting an extensive FAQ section online as well. Additionally, we will also be holding community calls for faculty, students, staff and parents over the next couple of months.

Planning for the future during this moment has certainly been humbling. This Coronavirus has reminded us time and time again of the lessons from our Jewish tradition that we are not in full control of our circumstances. But our tradition also teaches us that we are in control of our response to our circumstances. Next semester will present significant challenges and changes. There will be some compromises and minor inconveniences--not every issue has a perfect solution. But faith and fortitude, mutual cooperation and resilience are essential life lessons that are accentuated during this period. And if we all commit to respond with graciousness, kindness, and love, we can transform new campus realities into profound life lessons for our future.

Deeply rooted in our Jewish values and forward focused in preparing for the careers and competencies of the future, we journey together with you, our Yeshiva University community, through these uncharted waters. Next year will be a formative year in the lives of our students, and together we will rise to the moment so that our students will emerge stronger and better prepared to be leaders of the world of tomorrow.

Best Wishes,

Ari Berman
Writing and Researching
Avoid plagiarism or misuse of sources charges by understanding how to research, how to write, and how to cite. 
YU Libraries Research Guides
Yeshiva University Libraries have a number of research guides on a variety of subjects to help students. There is also a guide to citation to help students learn when and how to cite references in their academic work.  
YU Writing Centers
The Writing Centers at both the Beren and Wilf campuses provide writing assistance to students at any level and at any stage of the writing process.  
Academic Integrity at MIT Student Guide 
The Academic Integrity at MIT Student Guide contains practical information on writing and citation.  The sections on paraphrasing, quotation, and summarizing contain a number of informative examples.  
Perdue University Online Writing Lab (OWL)
Perdue's Online Writing Lab is a vast resource on academic writing for students. It contains information on how to write, citation practices and formats, and subject-specific writing.   
Citing Generative Artificial Intelligence in MLA or APA Style
Are you in a class that allows the use of generative AI? You will need to cite your generative AI sources appropriately. The above links will help you formulate correct citations. Remember that in most classes, the use of generative artificial intelligence is not permitted.  If explicit permission to use generative platforms has not been given by your instructor, you should assume that you cannot use them.  
Effective learning and sound academic practice begins with effective time management. Whether it be studying for a big exam or writing a small homework assignment, giving yourself the time needed to complete your work will help you avoid academic integrity violations. The below pages give some basic principles to help students manage their time.
Principles of Time Management from Princeton's McGraw Center for Teaching and Learning
This page contains a short list of guiding principles to help you manage your time. Visit the "Resource Library" for other useful information on topics ranging from maximizing productivity to breaking the cycle of procrastination.  
The Most Effective Way to Schedule Your Day from Syracuse University
This blog post contains overviews of popular time management techniques and strategies.  Although it is aimed more at those already in the workforce, the general strategies are applicable to students.  
Time Management Tips for Busy College Students from Perdue University Global
This resource page has a number of tips to help students maximize productivity while balancing school and life.  
College-level learning is different and more involved than learning in high school. The below resources will help you figure out how to study, including what is working and what is not working for you.
Studying 101 from the University of North Carolina's Learning Center  
This brief guide contains general strategies as well as tips supported by educational research.  
The Learning Strategies Center at Cornell University
The "How to Study" page from Cornell's Learning Strategies Center contains advice on everything from note taking, to studying, to how to prepare for exams in both online and in-person formats.   
Proctorio at UVU | Office of Teaching and Learning | Office of Teaching and Learning | Utah Valley University
Faculty should use Proctorio to assist in proctoring their in-person electronic exams and any remote exams.  Note that Procotrio should be used to supplement (not replace) live proctoring for in-person electronic exams. Utah Valley University has a great set of videos to show you how to enable and use Proctorio in your course Canvas page.     
Faculty should make clear the expectations for academic integrity for their course. Below are some recommended templates for syllabus language.   However, faculty should adjust the templates as needed to fit the educational goals of their course and the best practices within their fields of expertise. 
 
 
